April 14, 2026
The Secretary,
Listing Department,
BSE Limited
1st Floor, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street,
Mumbai - 400 001
Scrip Code: 543187

The Manager,
Listing Department,
National Stock Exchange of India Limited,
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Plot No. C/1, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051
Scrip Symbol: POWERINDIA

Dear Sir/ Madam,
Sub.: Press Release as per Regulation 30 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015
We are sending herewith a copy of the Press Release titled “Hitachi and Adani switch on HVDC city center infeed for more
than 20 million people in Mumbai” which is being issued by the Company today to the media for information of the Stock
Exchanges.
This is pursuant to Regulation 30 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
You are requested to take the same on record.
Thank you,
Yours faithfully,
For Hitachi Energy India Limited

AMMATANDA
CHINNAPPA
POOVANNA

Digitally signed by AMMATANDA
CHINNAPPA POOVANNA
Date: 2026.04.14 22:31:55 +05'30'

Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel and Company Secretary

Encl.: as above

Hitachi Energy India Limited
Registered and Corporate Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560 092
E-mail: investors@hitachienergy.com
Phone: 080 68473700
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
hitachienergy.com/in

News Release

Hitachi and Adani switch on HVDC city center infeed for more than 20 million
people in Mumbai
Delivering a 50 percent boost in electricity supplied to the city from outside, the new HVDC link
strengthens grid resilience, accelerates renewable integration, and sets a global benchmark for
urban transmission



One of the world’s largest urban HVDC city infeeds delivers renewable energy and drives
forward the city’s Climate Action Plan and decarbonization ambitions
A space-saving converter station and 50 km of underground HVDC cables overcome
Mumbai’s urban constraints

Valves hall at the converter station in Mumbai

Bengaluru, April 14, 2026 - Hitachi Energy, a global technology leader in electriﬁcation, and
Adani Energy Solutions Ltd. (AESL), India’s largest private sector power transmission and
distribution company, have successfully commissioned one of the world’s largest high-voltage
direct current (HVDC) city center infeed in Mumbai, increasing power supply coming from
outside the city by 50 percent.
Injecting up to 1,000 megawatts (MW) of reliable, secure, and clean power directly into one of
the world’s most densely populated megacities, the new HVDC link delivers a step-change in
Mumbai’s energy resilience. The Kudus-Aarey connection signiﬁcantly strengthens the city’s
transmission infrastructure, supporting the daily needs of more than 20 million people.
One of the world's largest urban HVDC infeeds, delivering 1,000 MW of renewable energy
Powered by Hitachi Energy’s Voltage Source Converter (VSC) HVDC technology, the link
delivers precise, fast control of power ﬂow, improved voltage stability, and enhanced grid
reliability in a city where space is scarce. The Aarey converter station upgrade marks the city’s
most signiﬁcant grid modernization in nearly 25 years, boosting the grid capacity from 250 to
1,000 megawatts (MW) and directly reinforcing the city’s energy stability and resilience thus
ensuring energy security.
1/3

“The HVDC city center infeed is a critical enabler of the Mumbai Climate Action Plan,
strengthening the city’s ability to integrate renewable energy and build a more resilient, futureready grid,” said Kandarp Patel, CEO, Adani Energy Solutions Ltd. “By expanding access to
clean power, this project supports the city’s decarbonization goals and ensures that homes,
businesses, transport systems, and digital infrastructure have the reliable, low-carbon electricity
they need to grow.”
Urban innovation: overcoming Mumbai's constraints
Delivering this milestone project in the heart of a busy megacity demanded exceptional
execution capability. Building a major transmission interface within tight urban constraints
required precise coordination of construction and logistics, a challenge intensiﬁed by Mumbai’s
monsoon seasons. The converter station was engineered with an extremely compact footprint
and supplied through a conﬁguration combining overhead lines and underground HVDC cables,
which freed approximately 2 square kilometers of urban territory - equivalent to approximately
280 football ﬁelds1 or more than 100 cricket ﬁelds2.
“The Mumbai HVDC city center infeed demonstrates Hitachi Energy’s capability in delivering
mission-critical, technically complex, and space-constrained transmission infrastructure for some
of the world’s largest population centers,” said Niklas Persson, CEO, Grid Integration Business
Unit, Hitachi Energy. “With our pioneering HVDC technology at its core, this project feeds
reliable, secure electricity into Mumbai – powering its fast-growing economy, digital
infrastructure, rising data center demand, industries, and daily lives.”
“The commissioning of the Mumbai HVDC city infeed is a moment of immense pride for Hitachi
Energy,” said N Venu, Managing Director and CEO, Hitachi Energy India Limited. “This project
pushes the boundaries of what transmission technology can achieve in one of the world’s most
complex urban environments. Our teams in India have delivered a breakthrough that brings
cleaner, more reliable power to millions of people, showcasing how innovation made in India, is
shaping the nation’s energy future.”
The project is supplied through the Kudus grid connection with power imported from outside
the city, including renewable energy from generation regions of Maharashtra and renewablerich nodes across India’s national grid. With its compact footprint, ability to transmit power
through underground cables in constrained corridors, and inherent advantages in managing
power congestion, pollution, acoustical and electrical noise, power quality, and control, the incity HVDC application provides a scalable model for other Indian cities and global megacities
facing similar multiplying power demand as well as land permitting and grid integration
challenges.
Hitachi Energy's HVDC legacy in India
Hitachi Energy has an impressive HVDC track record in India, where it introduced the HVDC
technology with the Rihand-Dadri HVDC transmission system in 1990. The company is currently
executing several of India’s most transformative renewable energy transmission corridors, such
as the 950-km, 6,000 MW HVDC connection from the renewable energy zone in
Bhadla/Rajasthan to Fatehpur/UP, the 1,200-km, 6,000 MW link from Khavda to Nagpur. To
support the execution of these and other projects worldwide, in 2023, Hitachi Energy
Standard football pitch size area is 7,140 m². Source: FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association International Federation of Association Football).
2
Cricket ﬁelds vary in size, but a common international diameter is ~137 metres and area ≈ 14,738 m². Source:
International Cricket Council (ICC)
1

2/3

inaugurated an advanced power electronics factory in Chennai to enhance the local production
capacity of pioneering HVDC and power quality solutions. Together, these developments
rea rm Hitachi Energy’s role as a long-term technology partner in building India’s grid of the
future.
About Hitachi Energy
Hitachi Energy is a global technology leader in electrification, powering a sustainable energy future with innovative
power grid technologies with digital at the core. Over three billion people depend on our technologies to power their
daily lives. With over a century in pioneering mission-critical technologies like high-voltage, transformers,
automation, and power electronics, we are addressing the most urgent energy challenge of our time – balancing
soaring electricity demand, while decarbonizing the power system. With an unparalleled installed base in over 140
countries, we co-create and build long-term partnerships across the utility, industry, transportation, data centers, and
infrastructure sectors. Headquartered in Switzerland, we employ over 50,000 people in 60 countries and generate
revenues of around $16 billion USD.
In India, Hitachi Energy operates under the legal entity name Hitachi Energy India Limited and is listed on the
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE) as POWERINDIA, Scrip code 543187.
Https://www.hitachienergy.com
https://www.linkedin.com/company/hitachienergy
https://x.com/HitachiEnergy
About Hitachi, Ltd.
Through its Social Innovation Business (SIB) that brings together IT, OT (Operational Technology) and products,
Hitachi contributes to a harmonized society where the environment, wellbeing, and economic growth are in balance.
Hitachi operates globally in four sectors – Digital Systems & Services, Energy, Mobility, and Connective Industries –
and the Strategic SIB Business Unit for new growth businesses. With Lumada at its core, Hitachi generates value from
integrating data, technology and domain knowledge to solve customer and social challenges. Revenues for FY2024
(ended March 31, 2025) totaled 9,783.3 billion yen, with 618 consolidated subsidiaries and approximately 280,000
employees worldwide. Visit us at www.hitachi.com.

Media contact
Seema Siddiqui | Seema.siddiqui@hitachienergy.com

3/3

