July 22, 2024

The Secretary,
Listing Department,
BSE Limited,
1st Floor, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street,
Mumbai - 400 001
Scrip Code: 543187

The Manager,
Listing Department,
National Stock Exchange of India Limited,
‘Exchange Plaza’, 5th Floor, Plot No. C/1, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051
Scrip Symbol: POWERINDIA

Sub.: Regulation 34 of the SEBI Listing Regulations - Integrated Annual Report for the financial year 2023-24
Dear Sir/ Madam,
Pursuant to Regulation 34 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
(SEBI Listing Regulations), please find enclosed the Integrated Annual Report of the Company for the financial
year 2023-24 along with Notice of the 5th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company, which has been dispatched
today i.e. on July 22, 2024, through electronic mode to those Members whose e-mail addresses are registered with the
Company/ Depositories/ Registrar and Share Transfer Agent viz.; KFin Technologies Limited.
The 5th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Wednesday, August 21, 2024 at 11:00 A.M. (IST) at
Sheraton Grand Bangalore Hotel at Brigade Gateway, 26/1 Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar,
Bengaluru – 560055.
The Integrated Annual Report of the Company can also be accessed from the website of the Company at:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/general-meetings#annual-report.
We request you to take this on record and to treat the same as compliance with the applicable provisions of the SEBI
Listing Regulations.
Thank you,
Yours faithfully,
For Hitachi Energy India Limited

Ammatanda
Chinnappa
Poovanna
Poovanna Ammatanda

Digitally signed by
Ammatanda Chinnappa
Poovanna
Date: 2024.07.22 20:42:37
+05'30'

General Counsel and Company Secretary

Encl.: as above
CC:
1.
2.
3.

National Securities Depository Limited
Central Depository Services (India) Limited
KFin Technologies Limited – Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.

Hitachi Energy India Limited
Registered and Corporate Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru – 560 092,
Phone: 080 68473700
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
www.hitachienergy.com/in

Hitachi Energy India Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Leading the 
energy transition

Inside this report
02

About the report

42

Risk and opportunities

04

Industry overview

44

Reach & Solutions

06

India’s position in the energy market

46

Governance

08

F Y 2023-24 performance at a glance

48

Financial capital

12

Company overview

50

Manufactured capital

13

Businesses

52

Human capital

15

Footprint

56

Social and relationship capital

16

Financial performance

61

Intellectual capital

18

Impactful solutions

62

Natural capital

20	
Message from Chairman and MD & CEO
22

Sustainability

65 	Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report

27

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

103 AGM Notice

29

Events and Awards

120 Board’s Report

33

Board of Directors

130 Management Discussion & Analysis Report

34

Country Management Committee

187 Independent Auditor’s Report

35

Corporate Information

196 Balance Sheet

36

Business model

197 Statement of profit and loss

38

Strategy

198 Statement of cash flows

40

Stakeholder engagement

200 Notes to the financial statements

Leading the
energy transition
Hitachi Energy India Limited is powered by its
purpose – to advance a sustainable energy
future for all. The Company firmly believes
that technology is a key enabler in the journey
towards this goal which will help secure the
future of generations to come.
Today, the world is humming with global
industrial expansion and digitalisation; we are
witness to a flurry of commercial and retail
developments which includes setting up
of offshore R&D offices, data centers, data
transmission networks, and the electrification
of transport. Massive technological leaps
have enabled faster communication,
dissolving of geographical boundaries, and
greater collaboration. The actualisation of the
Internet of Things, especially through emerging
technologies like AI and Gen AI hastened
the pace of change across every industry
and society.
This rapid pace of change means that the
global energy infrastructure is under constant
pressure to meet the ever-growing electricity
requirements. The greater challenge, however,
is to ensure an inclusive and equitable future

that addresses the critical aspects of energy
security, efficiency, flexibility, and reliability
with minimum environmental footprint.
By leveraging Hitachi Energy India Limited’s
expertise in pioneering technologies across
the spectrum of generation, transmission,
distribution, and consumption, the Company
is co-creating global, local, and hyper-local
solutions across industries and geographies for
its customers.
In the sustained pursuit of quality, innovation,
and excellence, Hitachi Energy India Limited has
maintained a deep focus on building sustainable,
diverse, and meaningful partnerships. These
relationships encompass customers, suppliers,
industry partners, policy makers, academia
as well as communities to inspire innovative
pathways to a carbon-neutral future.
Ultimately, Hitachi Energy India Limited is driven
by the objective to contribute to creating longterm customer value and have a real, positive
impact on societies, economies, and the
environment.

Over the past seven decades, Hitachi Energy India Limited’s legacy demonstrates our unwavering dedication toward
bringing a clean flexible and sustainable energy future for all in the country. As India grows to take its place as the
third-largest economy in the world, there is also the commitment to work towards a zero-carbon future. Advanced
digital technologies will play a pivotal role in navigating the complexities of the evolving energy landscape and ensuring
sustainability. We have been part of many nation-building projects, contributing to a strong and resilient grid. Whether it is to
scale renewables, redefine mobility – rail or electric vehicles – or help industries and data centers transition to clean energy
or low-carbon power, our technology, innovation and services will help India achieve net zero.”

N Venu
Managing Director and CEO, Hitachi Energy India Ltd.

ABOUT THE REPORT

We are delighted to present our inaugural Integrated Annual Report for financial
year 2023-24. This report includes voluntary information, as far as it is available to
us, in line with the reporting framework developed by the International Integrated
Reporting Council (IIRC). Primarily, this report aims to meet the information needs
of our investors, both equity holders and potential investors. Our goal is to present
this information in a way that is also relevant to all key stakeholders.

This report complies with the Companies Act, 2013,
Indian Accounting Standards, SEBI (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, and the
Secretarial standards issued by the Institute of Company
Secretaries of India. It also highlights our contributions to the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) standards.
The compilation of information within this integrated annual
report for FY 2023-24 has undergone a rigorous governance
process to ensure the integrity of the facts and information.
The governance for this report has ensured the application of
a collective mind, confirming that reviewers are satisfied with
the integrity and accuracy of the provided information, and its
compliance with the key concepts of the IR Framework.

When considered as a whole, the Integrated Report presents
a factual and balanced account of the Company’s business
activities. It informs stakeholders about our delivery on key
corporate, social, and environmental responsibilities, and
our alignment with the strategy and business model. It also
provides a representation of material risks and opportunities.
The management of Hitachi Energy India Ltd recognizes
its responsibility in ensuring the integrity, transparency, and
accuracy of the information presented in the Integrated Annual
Report. The management also confirms that the report
addresses business-critical material issues pertaining to the
organization and its stakeholders and communicates the
organization’s ability to pursue prospects and mitigate risk.

Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements that describe our expectations, based on reasonable assumptions and past
performances. These are subject to change in light of developments in the industry, geographical market conditions, government
regulations, laws, and other incidental factors. These statements should not be used as a guarantee of our future performance, as
the underlying assumptions could materially change.

02

Scope and Boundary

Reporting Period

This report provides comprehensive information about
the business activities of Hitachi Energy India Limited,
communicated through the six capitals as per the
guidelines defined by the International Integrated
Reporting Council (IIRC). The document encapsulates
our business model, overarching performance, and
corresponding results.

The reporting period for the Annual Report is from
1st April, 2023 to 31st March, 2024. However, certain
sections of the report provide facts and figures from
prior years to give readers a complete picture.

For the purpose of this report, the terms “Hitachi
Energy India”, “The Company”, “Your Company”,
“We”, “Our”, and “Us” represent Hitachi Energy
India Limited. “Hitachi Energy”, “Hitachi Energy
Ltd.” represent the Holding / Promoter / Group
Company(ies) of Hitachi Energy India Ltd.

Auditor’s Report

Stakeholder Feedback

The financial statements are audited by S.R.Batiboi
and Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants, and
the ‘Independent Auditor’s Report’ has been duly
incorporated as part of this report.

We welcome and appreciate the constructive
participation and feedback of our stakeholders.
Please send us your feedback to:
Email: investors@hitachienergy.com
Website: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en

Capitals that Drive Our Business Forward

Financial capital

Social and relationship capital

Intellectual capital

Manufactured capital

Human capital

Natural capital

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

03

INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

Poised to support India’s growth
and energy ambitions
India has emerged as the fastest-growing economy in the world, on track to
become the third-largest economic power globally in the upcoming years.
A vast young population out of which 65% are below the age of 35, provides the
foundation of this potential. This will drive a multifold increase in energy demand,
which will require secure, sustainable, and scalable energy infrastructure to meet
the growing energy needs of today and generations to come.

Globally, the economy proved resilient – demonstrating gradual
growth at a modest pace. Despite the fact that geo‑political
tensions and resulting supply chain and labor market impacts
were expected over FY 2023-24, inflation receded across
major economies, and supply chain disruption eased.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD), expects steady global growth over the next couple
of years with the growth rate of 3.1% experienced in 2023 to
continue in 2024 and pick up to 3.2% in 2025. This growth,
while subdued compared to the decade’s historical average of
3.8% (2000-2019) indicates a slight upturn, with inflation falling
in most regions.
However, the ongoing conflict between Russia-Ukraine, the
Israel-Hamas war, and diplomatic tensions between the US
and China had a marked impact on critical sectors such as
energy, pharma, and agriculture through disruption in logistics
and supply chains. While investment in the energy sector,
especially in clean energy is growing, acceleration is required
in order to meet the net zero emissions goal by 2050.
Against this backdrop, India presents a solid case for an
optimistic outlook while pinpointing the areas that need to be
recalibrated. As per the Ministry of External Affairs’ Half Yearly
Economic Review, India’s real GDP growth remained resilient
due to strong domestic demand amid continued deceleration
in global economic activity. The Indian economy remained
resilient with robust 7.6% growth rate of GDP in FY 2023-24
over and above 7% growth rate in FY 2022-23. Double-digit
growth was seen across sectors like construction (10.7%), and
manufacturing saw strong growth rate at 8.5% in FY 2023-24.
The World Bank’s October 2023 India Development Update
reported that India’s growth rate was the second highest
among G20 countries and almost twice the average for
emerging market economies. This resilience was underpinned
by robust domestic demand, strong public infrastructure
investment and a strengthening financial sector.
The provisional estimates of Indian annual GDP for 2023-24
by National Statistical Office (NSO) is expected to grow by
8.2% in FY 2023-24 as compared to the growth rate of 7.0% in

04

FY 2022-23. This puts the country on track to play its role as a
growth driver for the Asian region. The IMF predicts that Asia
will drive 60% of global GDP growth in 2024.
To support this growth, India’s installed power capacity is
expected to reach 616 GW by 2027, increase to 900 GW by
2032, from its current capacity of 442 GW in March 2024.
However, climate-led challenges have brought focus on
renewing efforts to accelerate the first leg of India’s climate
action commitments – to reduce intensity of emissions of GDP
by 45% (from 2005 levels) and achieve about 50% cumulative
electricity generation capacity from non-fossil fuel-based
energy resources by 2030, with the aim to reach the long-term
net-zero goal by 2070.
Efforts are being taken to promote manufacturing and the use
of renewable energy along with a gradual shift from fossilbased fuels, to mitigate the impact of climate change. As a
result, renewable energy sources, including large hydropower,
have increased by 11% in FY 2023-24, resulting in a combined
installed capacity of 191 GW at the end of March 2024. The
present installed capacity of power generation is around
4,26,132 MW. Out of a total generation capacity of 9,943 MW
added in FY 2023-24, 1,674 MW is from fossil fuel sources
and 8,269 MW is from non-fossil fuel sources. The National

To support this growth, India’s installed
power capacity is expected to reach
over 600 GW by 2027, increase to over
900 GW by 2032, from its current capacity
of 442 GW in March 2024.

Corporate Overview

Committee on Transmission (NCT) has approved about 10
new transmission projects worth over C 6,600 Crores.
Further, implementation of the Production Linked Incentive
(PLI) Scheme for National Program on High Efficiency Solar PV
Modules will help achieve manufacturing capacity of GW scale
in high efficiency Solar PV modules.
Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) will also play a
critical role as demand for power surges. As per the Central
Electricity Authority’s (CEA) National Electricity Plan (NEP)
2023 projections, energy storage requirement is expected
to increase to 2380 GWh (540 GWh from Pumped Storage
Projects and 1840 GWh from BESS). In order to make
battery storage affordable, the Viability Gap Funding scheme,
approved to the extent of up to 40% of capital cost for setting
up 4,000 MWh of BESS, will serve to bring down the cost of
electricity from BESS. Additionally, the PLI scheme for the
manufacturing of Advanced Chemistry Cell (ACC) battery
storage of 50 GWh capacity will encourage investment in the
domestic manufacturing of cells for grid-scale applications,
reduce import burden and result in cost reduction of BESS
in future.
India’s largest BESS storing solar energy – the 40 MW/120
MWh solar PV plant with an installed capacity of 152.3 MWh
was successfully commissioned in Rajnandgaon, Chhattisgarh
in February 2024.

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Distribution (T&D) solutions, HVDC transmission corridors
and innovative transformers, power quality products and
automation solutions align with the requirements for efficient
power evacuation from renewable energy sources. Moreover,
the Company’s offerings for e-mobility, data centers
and industries present significant growth prospects. Its
commitment to digital transformation, enhancing efficiency,
productivity, availability, and environmental sustainability,
solidifies its position as a trusted long-term partner in
advancing a sustainable energy future in India.

Hitachi Energy India Limited’s
comprehensive electrification portfolio with
a range of Transmission and Distribution
(T&D) solutions, HVDC transmission
corridors and innovative transformers,
power quality products and automation
solutions align with the requirements for
efficient power evacuation from renewable
energy sources and making grid flexible
and reliable.

Green hydrogen continues to be top priority with expenditure
of C 17,490 Crores earmarked to support domestic
manufacturing of electrolyzers. This, along with a requirement
of 125 GW of renewable energy for such production, will
give further impetus to decarbonisation efforts of 50 MMT of
cumulative carbon abatement while reducing fossil fuel import
dependence.
In the last seven decades, Hitachi Energy India Limited
has significantly contributed to realising India’s ambitions
in strengthening and transforming the dynamically evolving
energy landscape. The Company is strategically positioned to
contribute to the country’s growing economy and achieving
its sustainability goals. The Company seeks to leverage the
government’s initiatives and emerging trends in the renewables
sector through world-class technologies, eco‑efficient
products, solutions and services while consolidating its
contribution through exports.
With a strong market presence, deep expertise in high‑voltage
power technologies and delivery across the value chain,
it is poised to benefit from considerable investments in
transmission including systems dedicated to renewable grid
integration. Hitachi Energy India Limited’s comprehensive
electrification portfolio with a range of Transmission and

05

INDIA’S POSITION IN THE ENERGY MARKET

Key highlights of FY 2023-24
~442 GW

4th

Installed power capacity
India is the third-largest producer
of electricity worldwide1

Largest installed renewable
energy capacity4

3rd

5th

Largest consumer of
electricity worldwide is India,
with a population of 1.43 billion2

3rd
India is the world’s third-largest
emitter of CO2 emissions
1.9 tCO2 per person3

06

In attracting clean energy
investments of US$19 billion5
1 https://cea.nic.in/wp-content/uploads/installed/2024/03/IC_Mar_2024_
allocation_wise.pdf
2 https://www.ibef.org/industry/power-sector-india
3 https://www.statista.com/statistics/1379081/leading-countries-basedon-greenhouse-gas-emissions/ (as of September 2023)
4 https://www.irena.org/Data/View-data-by-topic/Capacity-andGeneration/Country-Rankings
5 https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-investment-2023/overviewand-key-findings (as of 2022)

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Focus areas – 2030

43%

6.4%

50%

30%

Of total generating
capacity is in the form
of renewable energy6

EV penetration of
India market in 2023
compared to 4.75%
in 20228

Energy from
non‑fossil sources

EV penetration

94%

500 GW
Renewable energy
capacity

Rail broad-gauge
network installed7

100%

6 https://cea.nic.in/wp-content/uploads/installed/2024/03/IC_Mar_2024_
allocation_wise.pdf

1 billion tons
Of CO2 reduction

1 million tons
Of green hydrogen
in annual production

Rail electrification

7 https://pib.gov.in/PressReleaseIframePage.aspx?PRID=2001906
8 https://www.statista.com/statistics/1453069/india-penetration-ofelectric-vehicles/#:~:text=In%202023%2C%20the%20penetration%20
rate,comparison%20with%20a%20decade%20ago

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

07

FY 2023-24 PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE

Hitachi Energy India Limited

Financial highlights

K 5,246.8 Crores

Business highlights
Orders split by sectors

Revenue

58% Utilities
& Renewables

K 163.8 Crores

18% Industries
24% Transport
& Infrastructure

Profit after tax (PAT)

K 350.2 Crores
Operational EBITDA

Orders split by offering

K 38.64

78% Products

Earnings per share

15% Projects
7% Services

08

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Sustainability highlights
Hitachi Energy’s purpose for sustainability 20301, places sustainability at the heart of the Company’s purpose with a promise to
advance a sustainable energy future for all. In line with this purpose, Hitachi Energy India Limited is committed to drive business in
a sustainable way. The Sustainability 2030 plan aims to advance in four key areas – Planet, People, Peace and Partnerships.

Planet

People

97%

~21%

Recycling of waste

Gender diversity in hiring

18%
Reduction in water from 2019

88%
Reduction in emissions from 2019

37%
Reduction in energy consumption
per Crores revenue since 2019

Peace

Partnerships

New Energy Lab – Integration,
Control & Protection
IIT Kharagpur
Smart Electric Grid Higher
Education & Lab
NIT Warangal
Smart & Sustainable
Community/Campus
IIT Roorkee

Zero incident of
corruption and
bribery
1 Hitachi Energy is working to become carbon neutral across its operating sites by 2030, and throughout its value chain by 2050. The Sustainability 2030

plan summarises Hitachi Energy’s commitment to act and drive business based on four pillars: Planet, People, Peace, and Partnerships. Its strategy
draws from the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Each pillar has corresponding targets that drive its business to contribute social, environmental,
and economic value.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

09

Technology
for a sustainable
and digital grid
in India

10

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

As a leading provider of power technology, Hitachi Energy India Limited’s comprehensive
energy portfolio provides sustainable solutions to meet the ever-increasing demand
for electricity, while also driving the energy transition. The Company’s rich heritage
in India has provided technological innovations that facilitated One-Nation-One-Grid,
seamless integration of renewables at scale across multiple projects, and the transition to
digitalisation. Your Company’s sustainable portfolio of products and solutions is designed
to facilitate the safe and efficient management of the entire energy cycle, across both
conventional and renewable sources.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

11

COMPANY OVERVIEW

Technologies for a sustainable
and digital grid in India
As a leading provider of power technology, Hitachi Energy India Limited’s
comprehensive energy portfolio provides sustainable solutions to meet the everincreasing demand for electricity, while also driving the energy transition.

The Company’s rich heritage in India has provided
technological innovations that facilitated One-Nation-OneGrid, the seamless integration of renewables at scale, and the
transition to digitalisation. The Company’s sustainable portfolio
of products and solutions is designed to facilitate the safe and
efficient management of the entire energy cycle, across both
conventional and renewable sources.

The journey of Hitachi Energy India Limited
Advancing India’s sustainable energy future
Deeply rooted in the country since its entry to the Indian
market in 1949, the Company has significantly expanded its
local operations to meet the country’s evolving power sector
needs, facilitate accelerated energy transitions and drive
digitalisation. The Company’s pioneering and digital solutions
span the power value chain as a total life-cycle partner,
ensuring the provision of reliable and sustainable services
to its clients. To enable scale for sustainable growth in the
sector, the Company has made significant investments across
the value chain spanning R&D centers, academia, customer
learning centers, employees, and suppliers.

Globally Hitachi Energy was formed as two
iconic companies with a combined heritage of
almost 250 years in pioneering technologies
came together. The Company’s position as
a prominent player in the energy sector was
strengthened through a strategic joint venture
of ABB’s Power Grids business and Hitachi Ltd.
announced in 2018.
Hitachi Energy India Limited was listed on
Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National
Stock Exchange (NSE) amidst the global
pandemic on March 30, 2020.
12

A powerhouse in manufacturing electronics, industrial
machinery, and infrastructure products since 1910, Hitachi
Ltd. lends its expertise and resources to fuel Hitachi Energy’s
innovative energy solutions for India. Hitachi’s leading digital
technologies merged with world-class power grids solutions
will help Hitachi Energy to actively support the global
transformation and decarbonisation of the energy system.
As India’s energy needs evolve to support rapid economic
growth, Hitachi Energy India Limited extends its legacy of
seven decades as a leader in technology and pioneering
innovation to advance a sustainable energy future for
everyone, everywhere in the country. In its efforts to enable
India’s energy transition, the Company has forged key
partnerships in diverse sectors such as utilities, industries,
transportation, data centers, and smart life. Together with
our customers, our focus is on building truly sustainable
power infrastructure.

BUSINESSES

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Digitalising the
energy landscape
Hitachi Energy India Limited is focused on advancing India’s energy system to
be more sustainable, flexible, and secure. To achieve this goal, the Company
strives to provide maximum value to its customers through pioneering technology,
sustainable products and solutions, expertise in digitalisation, and a wide and
highly organised network that combines manufacturing, sales and service.

The Company has intensified its capacity and resource
augmentation in line with India’s acceleration of efforts to meet
climate targets.

More than

10

Grid Integration Business Unit
The Grid Integration BU offers a wide range of transmission
and substation applications and facilitates integration of the
future digital electric network in a reliable, efficient manner with
minimal environmental impact.
This BU brings together a multitude of integrated systems,
solutions, and services from the Company’s DC and AC
fields including High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC), Grid
Edge, Substations, and Power Quality solutions. It also
extends to offshore wind connections, semiconductors, and
power consulting services for key segments in the energy
system such as renewables, transmission distribution, and
e-transportation solutions.

BUSD installed base in India spanning
generation, and transmission of industrial
electric power systems

2,375
Experts in India close to customers, providing
deep insights into local market operations and
conditions unique to the subcontinent
The Company delivers technology, solutions and services
through its four Business Units (BU) that correlate its
pioneering solutions, innovations, and competencies with the
diverse needs of customers.

Grid Automation Business Unit
The Grid Automation BU’s comprehensive portfolio of
solutions addresses all key segments connected to the
energy system including generation, transmission, distribution,
industries, transportation, and infrastructure.

Solutions
.

Substation automation

.

Communication networks

.

Grid automation services

.

Grid edge solutions

.

Enterprize software solutions

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

13

BUSINESSES

High Voltage Products Business Unit
Hitachi Energy India Limited is a leading provider of highvoltage technology, offering a wide range of high-voltage
products for both AC and DC systems up to 1,200 kV and
1,100 kV, respectively. Its High Voltage Products encompasses
air-insulated switchgear (AIS) and gas-insulated switchgear
(GIS), circuit-breakers, generator circuit-breakers, power
quality products, surge arresters, disconnectors, instrument
transformers, and high-voltage services help enhance the
safety, reliability, and efficiency of power networks while
reducing the environmental impact.
The BU diligently integrates key innovations in active
technology power quality and battery energy storage,
eco‑efficient switchgear, digital generator circuit-breakers, and
hybrid and integrated switchgear that help adopt and adapt to
dynamic demands in the modern energy landscape.

Transformers Business Unit
The grid is poised for greater levels of complexity with ongoing
decarbonisation efforts which will necessitate better power

14

quality and network management. Transformers will be crucial
towards making these improvements a reality.
The Transformers BU delivers end-to-end solutions for
power transformers, traction transformers, insulation and
components, digital sensors, and transformer services.
These transformers have been deployed for power generation,
transmission, and distribution in metals and mining, oil
and gas, commercial and infrastructure projects, as well
as mobility.
The Company offers next-level transformer digitalisation in the
form of TXpert™ Ecosystem, demonstrating its commitment to
innovation and sustainability.
Hitachi Energy India Limited became the first company to
supply the largest power-rated Scott transformers in India,
with multiple units of 100 MVA, 132 kV and 230 kV. Scott
transformers will enable the upgrade of the rail infrastructure
electrical system in Western India to allow trains to reach
speeds of 160km/h, a +20% increase compared to the current
130km/h maximum speed – making commute between four
major Indian cities faster and more reliable.

FOOTPRINT

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Delivering an innovation roadmap
for India’s energy transition
Deeply rooted in the country, Hitachi Energy India Limited is a trusted partner on
the journey towards a carbon-neutral energy system, providing path-breaking
power technology solutions.

11

4

13
9

12

15
19

10

2

18

20 21
23

7

22

16
8

6

Sales offices
1.	Bengaluru (Country
Headquarters)
2.	Vadodara
3.	Chennai
4.	Faridabad
5.	Hyderabad
6.	Mumbai
7.	Kolkata
8.	Bhubaneswar
9.	Lucknow
10.	Ahmedabad
11.	Chandigarh
12.	Jaipur
Sales touch points
13. Gurugram
14. Kochi
15. Guwahati
16. Raipur
17. Pune
18. Bhopal
19. Jabalpur

17

Manufacturing locations
5

20. Maneja – Vadodara
21. Savli (Main) – Vadodara
22. Savli (Feeder) – Vadodara
23. Halol – Vadodara
24. Chennai

1
25 26
27

24

3

25.	Peenya – Bengaluru
26. Doddaballapur – Bengaluru
27. Mysuru

14

Source: Surveyofindia
https://surveyofindia.gov.in/webroot/
UserFiles/files/1_16%282%29.pdf

Map not to scale and for representation purpose only

Large base:

19 manufacturing units
across 8 locations
12 sales offices; 7 sales
touch points
2,375 employees
Digital Experience Centre
(Bengaluru)
Energy Technology Experience
Centre (Maneja)

All Four Business Units:
Transformers
High Voltage Products

Bengaluru: Head office
Energy Digital Experience Center
Manufacturing unit, Peenya
Manufacturing unit, Doddaballapura
Maneja: Manufacturing units,
Energy Technology Experience Center
Halol: Manufacturing units
Savli: Manufacturing units

Grid Integration

Mysuru: Manufacturing unit

Grid Automation

Chennai: Manufacturing unit

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

15

FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

Partnering India’s
net zero ambitions
The Company’s positive performance and growth reflects a strong alignment
with the Indian power sector, and the ability to lead the energy transition.
The Company’s keen focus on customers and opportunities connected to
digitalisation and sustainability were instrumental in its successful performance
over the year.

The energy transition resulted in orders for renewables and
power quality, while other market drivers like data centers and
mobility from increasing urbanisation and digitalisation across
industries also played a part.
Exports increased, with orders from Asia, Europe, the US,
and Africa. Despite inventory and supply chain challenges
from semi-conductors and electronics. Balancing operational

complexity and efficiency, along with strong order execution
helped deliver revenue and bottom-line growth.
Through its technological leadership and local market intimacy,
Hitachi Energy India Limited has achieved solid growth
and continues to lay the foundation for a sustainable and
digital grid.

Key financial metrics
Particulars

Amount (K in Crores)

Total orders received

H 5,536.3

Revenue

H 5,246.8

Profit before tax after exceptional items

H 221.7

Profit after tax

H 163.8

Key ratios
Particulars

Effective tax rate

26.13

Earnings per share (in H)

38.64

Debtor turnover

3.44

Inventory turnover

3.99

Current ratio

1.16

16

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

17

IMPACTFUL SOLUTIONS

Solutions for impactful tomorrow
In its relentless pursuit of innovative solutions, the global R&D team at Hitachi
Energy in collaboration with local competence work towards path breaking
technology and product improvements towards its goal of advancing a
sustainable energy future for all.

Lumada APM

New and ongoing projects

The Company is ready with its next generation of Asset
Performance Management (APM) software solution. Lumada
APM facilitates a unified view of assets and asset systems.
The latest release builds on its proven asset health prediction
capabilities and has two additional Lumada APM modules –
Lumada APM reliability and Lumada APM optimisation. These
insights serve asset-intensive organisations in numerous ways
including maximising asset uptime, minimising unplanned
downtime, prioritising maintenance spend, extending asset life,
and reducing total cost of ownership.

Imparting nationwide scale to the energy
transition

SAM600 3.0
Modern digital substations are required to match and manage
the growing complexity and dynamics of power generation,
transmission, and distribution. The new and enhanced
SAM600 3.0 process interface unit is offered as a single-box
modular device that rolls in three units and can be configured
as a merging unit which enables faster digital adoptions. As a
result, grid operators can extend asset life span, gain crucial
investment protection along with superior system performance
and device flexibility and maintainability whilst lowering their
carbon footprint.

Factory updates
Production started in HVDC & Power Quality
factory in Chennai for HVDC Light® Valves
The newly inaugurated HVDC & Power Quality factory in
Chennai has started assembly of HVDC Light® converter
valves for Mumbai Infeed Project as per schedule. The
team kick started the production on schedule despite the
challenges in supply chain. In the first phase, the team started
with the production of five layers of the project for Type Test
and Validation.

18

As a leader in the energy sector, Hitachi Energy India Limited
continuously strives to innovate and drive sustainable solutions
for a rapidly evolving world. The Company’s commitment to
excellence and expertise is reflected in the diverse range of
projects undertaken.
From cutting-edge power systems to advanced manufacturing
facilities, the Company is progressing with several milestone
projects in FY 2023-24 that push the boundaries of innovation
and collaboration to deliver clean energy, grid reliability, and
integration of renewable energy sources on a national scale.

Successful completion of HVDC-Dielectric
type test
The HVDC team achieved a monumental milestone
by successfully completing the Valves type-test for a
client’s HVDC project manufactured in the HDVC and
Power Quality factory in Chennai. The team also received
positive feedback from the customer. In addition to IEC62501,
they performed a wet test for the customer, completing it
ahead of schedule.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Local and global partnerships

Augmenting India’s energy transition actions
As India adds renewable energy capacity at world-leading
speed, this increased RE generation and increased nonlinear loads impact the power quality in the grid. Large scale
renewable energy converters inject the power system with
harmonics/reactive power that is adding pressure on the
grid without delivering usable value. This is where STATCOM
plays a crucial role. Static synchronous compensator system
is a complex, multi-component system for reactive power
compensation and power quality improvement.
The Company secured a contract for High Power (HP)
STATCOM to integrate 4 GW renewable energy into the
National Grid from the upcoming project in Fatehgarh,
Rajasthan. The HP STATCOM and all major components for
the project are being manufactured at multiple local factories,
including the HVDC & Power Quality factory in Chennai.

Supporting the integration of renewable
power in India
The Company secured a contract from Ayana Renewable
Power to provide a grid connection solution for their upcoming
300 MW solar photovoltaic power plant in Bikaner, Rajasthan.
Hitachi Energy created an optimised solution that meets the
safety, quality and technical requirements of the project.
Leveraging its strong local footprint and expertise in project
design and execution, Hitachi Energy provided an engineering,
procurement and construction management package that
collects all the power generated by the plant and transfers it
into the national transmission system safely and reliably.

Strengthening Indian Rail

Hitachi Energy global entity acquires eks Energy
Advanced power electronics and energy management
software capabilities is required to meet accelerated, global
demand for battery energy storage solutions. To enable these
additional capabilities, parent company of Hitachi Energy
India Limited acquired a controlling stake of eks Energy, a
leading supplier of power electronics and energy management
solutions for storage and renewables integration, based in
Seville, Spain, from Powin LLC (Powin), a top global energy
storage system provider. The investment also marks the
establishment of a strategic partnership with Powin, who
maintains a significant ownership stake in eks Energy.

Hitachi Energy global entity and Google Cloud
Hitachi Energy Ltd. and Google Cloud have entered a strategic
agreement to collaborate and co-create on multiple cloud
software products and services designed to support the
energy transition. Hitachi Energy’s Velocity Suite Power Prices
is available on the Google Cloud Marketplace gives a first
taste of the significant value resulting from this partnership
that combines energy and digital expertise to advance
sustainability initiatives.

Manthan Lab in India
Grid Automation India inaugurated the Manthan Lab as
a support and training lab for customers, commissioning
engineers and for new recruit training. The center will also
help to test and validate new automation solutions for
customer projects.

Hitachi Energy India Limited has been transforming India’s
energy landscape and impacting diverse sectors, including
revolutionising rail and metro transportation with its advanced
power automation solutions and transformers. The Company
has received multiple orders for traction transformers from
leading rail locomotive manufacturers in India.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

19

MESSAGE FROM CHAIRMAN AND MD & CEO

Aiming for a carbon-neutral future

Achim Michael Braun

N. Venu

Chairman

Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer

Dear Shareholders,
As countries pledge or renew their commitments to attaining
a carbon-neutral future in the long-term, it has become
imperative to energise their efforts at scale with the twin
accelerators of sustainability and digitalisation. We are pleased
to provide you with an update on Hitachi Energy India Limited’s
progress and the exciting opportunities that lie ahead in India’s
renewable energy sector.
The objective of creating pathways to a sustainable energy
future has led to considerable progress in the renewable
energy sector. Conducive policies and ecosystem, favorable
schemes and incentives, and country-level initiatives clearly
indicate India’s ambition to be among the global leaders in
renewable energy production. Companies such as Hitachi
Energy India Limited, which have a long legacy of partnering
the country’s renewable energy ambitions, are well-positioned
to participate in and empower this transition. With our deep
expertise in renewable technologies, innovative products and
solutions enabled by our strong local manufacturing footprint
and capabilities, we can actively support this journey by
leveraging renewables such as wind, hydro and solar power.
While the goal is to accelerate the shift to non-fossil fuel-based
electricity, digital transformation has become equally critical to
manage the power system transition challenges. This includes
addressing on priority the increased complexity and reduction
of CO2 emissions while ensuring highest efficiency, reliability,
flexibility, and availability at scale. With rapid expansion and
electrification of the transportation, industry and buildings
sectors, the need for sustainable, secure and reliable power
supply has become imperative.

20

Strategically positioned
With the nation moving towards achieving its net-zero goal
for a sustainable future, Hitachi Energy India Limited is
strategically positioned to seize significant opportunities
in India’s evolving energy landscape. Our expertise and
commitment to innovation and delivering across the value
chain place us at the forefront of key growth areas including
renewable energy, data center or railway electrification.
In the renewable energy sector, the Company’s
comprehensive range of digitally-enabled solutions, including
energy management automation, evacuation systems, and
transformers position it well to capitalise on the momentum
towards renewable energy. India’s renewable energy market
is led by solar and wind, which are already charting an
exponential growth trajectory. As the capacity multiplies, the
Company’s strong market presence and extensive capabilities
uniquely position us to support the country’s ambitious
renewable energy targets.
Similarly, India’s data center capacity in the top seven cities
is expected to exceed 1 GW, a three-fold increase in four
years by 2024. The Company’s offerings, such as substations,
GIS, automation and transformers, are well-aligned with
the demand from data center operators for reliable power
connection and eco-efficient solutions.
Being a long-term partner of the Indian Railways, the Company
can provide the technology, products and services necessary
to support massive plans to expand the rail network,
modernise it to run high-speed trains, and overhaul old lines
along with electrification.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

In addition, Hitachi Energy India Limited’s extensive installed
base in India provides a solid foundation to expand its service
portfolio. With offerings ranging from digitalised classic
services to advanced services and servitised solutions,
the Company aims to maintain the steady pace of increase
in its share of service orders.
Through its manufacturing muscle, innovative solutions,
demonstrated success and expertise, Hitachi Energy India
Limited can tap into new markets and drive growth. In line
with its approach to ‘make in India for India and the world’,
Hitachi Energy India Limited is working to expand its export
footprint, which currently contributes to approximately 25%
of the order book.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Through its manufacturing muscle,
innovative solutions, demonstrated success
and expertise, Hitachi Energy India Limited
can tap into new markets and drive growth.
In line with its approach to ‘make in India for
India and the world’, Hitachi Energy India
Limited is working to expand its export
footprint, which currently contributes to
approximately 25% of the order book.

Surpassing targets
Four years since Hitachi Energy India Limited’s standalone
operations, the Company is proud to report that for the
FY 2023-24 the total orders secured were worth H 5,536.3
Crores. The Company managed to achieve this despite
the large-scale disruption caused by the pandemic, supply
chain limitations, global supply shocks due to geopolitical
challenges, and contractions in international trade.

Sustainability at heart
We greatly value the role of our employees in driving the
success of Hitachi Energy India Limited. That’s why our focus
is on fostering a diverse and inclusive culture that offers ample
opportunities for career growth. Our innovative employer branding
programs help us continue to attract top talent. The Company has
also created a culture of lifelong learning and adaptation, crucial in
today’s dynamic and complex market environment.
Safety, integrity, and quality have always been our license to
operate, and the Company has continued to prioritise them by
conducting regular training and awareness programs to create
a secure and supportive environment for all.
The Company’s periodic energy assessments and efficiency
transformations are pivotal to stepping up the pace towards
our commitment to achieving carbon-neutrality. Since the
inception of the Sustainability 2030 program, the Company
has achieved 88% reduction in carbon emission. Achieving
100% fossil-free electricity consumption in our facilities has
been another highlight in our sustainability journey. The
Company’s environment-focused initiatives such as smart
metering and multiple sustainability projects across locations
are also making an impact.

Innovation and collaboration
By exploring greater synergies and collaborative partnerships
with industry and technology implementation partners, we
are continually innovating and co-creating next-generation
eco-efficient solutions that will address future challenges
and accelerate the power system ramp-up in the transition

towards a carbon-neutral energy system. The Company is also
supporting academia by creating a social innovation platform
for students, researchers, faculties and industries to ideate
through hackathons and joint projects.

In conclusion
Hitachi Energy India Limited remains committed to shaping the
future of the energy sector, delivering sustainable, digital-led
solutions and creating long-term value for our stakeholders.
The Company is well poised to harness opportunities in
key growth areas through a strong foundation, strategic
focus, close collaboration with stakeholders and relentless
innovation.
We have deep gratitude towards our esteemed shareholders,
investors, and dedicated employees for their unwavering
support, trust and commitment. These have been instrumental
in propelling Hitachi Energy India Limited’s journey towards a
sustainable and prosperous future.
As we continue to work towards contributing to India’s growth
story, we will lean heavily on our industry-leading experience,
deep domain expertise, and pioneering technologies.
Together with our stakeholders, we look forward to
accelerating the global energy transition and ensuring a
sustainable, safe and secure energy future for all.
Sincerely,
for Hitachi Energy India Limited
Achim Michael Braun
Chairman

N. Venu
MD & CEO

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

21

SUSTAINABILITY

Advancing a sustainable
energy future for all
In alignment with Hitachi Energy purpose, ‘Advancing a sustainable energy
future for all,’ is the guiding principle that makes sustainability central to your
Company’s business strategy, governance, and processes.

Strongly committed to progressing with purpose and lending
its support to a carbon-neutral future, the Company’s
Sustainability 2030 purpose lays out a strategic roadmap to
deliver to this promise with well-defined priorities and actions
driving sustainable and responsible business operations.
Hitachi Energy’s Purpose and 2030 strategy is primarily driven
by environmental, social, and economic sustainability that will
steer the world towards a sustainable energy future.
The Company’s Sustainability 2030 strategy revolves around
Planet, People, Peace and Partnerships.
Hitachi Energy forges strategic bonds between its people
and value-chain partners aligning them with its sustainability
agenda, with the understanding that sustainable performance
extends beyond its own operations and business offerings.
Transparency, accountability, and verification across the value
chain are fundamental tenets that define the Company’s
approach to sustainability performance management,
which encompasses:

Climate

Circular economy

Biodiversity and ecosystems

Health and safety
Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI)

Human rights and social contributions

22

Achieving the sustainability 2030
purpose in India
In alignment with its global purpose, Hitachi Energy India
Limited follows its 2030 goals for Planet, Peace, Partnerships
and People that form the roadmap for responsible and
sustainable performance in its operations in India.
The Company is among the early companies to form an
ESG committee at the Board level. Hitachi Energy India
Limited has been monitoring its operations and taking steps
towards circularity, by reducing the carbon footprint and other
environmental impacts of its operations, as well as through
product localisation. In addition, the Company’s strong
governance and policies reinforce the core of safety, integrity
and quality. The Company has undertaken initiatives focusing
on employee wellness, including health and safety, investing in
developing a diverse and inclusive culture.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Planet

5.5 kW

Aligning to Sustainability 2030 goals, Hitachi Energy India
Limited has taken several initiatives in its operations towards
reducing its impact on the environment.

New dedicated compressor installed for
Savli casting plant, reducing operation of
30 kW centralised compressor system

The Company’s commitment to become carbon neutral
by 2030 in its own operations drove the transition to green
electricity through Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs),
in-house solar and buying International Renewable Energy
Certificates (I-RECs) apart from taking measures to reduce
its overall energy consumption through various energy
conservation projects. The Company also reviewed freshwater
consumption and waste generation and has taken suitable
measures for resource conservation by bringing down
water consumption by 18% and recycling 97% of waste by
embracing circularity.
The Company achieved 100% fossil free electricity by investing
on rooftop solar in Maneja and Doddaballapur facilities, power
purchase agreements at Mysuru where more than 90%
of electricity is secured through wheeled green electricity
and carbon offset through International Renewable Energy
Certificate I-REC.
The Company also reduced direct emissions by transitioning
to low carbon fuels such as PNG from LPG in Maneja and
Halol, biofuels to fuel boilers in Mysuru and phasing out R22
at Maneja.
Various energy conservation measures were undertaken by
our facilities across India such as replacing conventional lights
with LED at Mysuru, installation of solar streetlights, AHU
process improvements and thermal insulation of hotlines at
Halol, and electrical retrofits such as replacement of old drives
and chiller replacement at Mysuru.

At Maneja, operations of HVAC at canteen were optimised
using Bluetooth automation. In addition, an energy monitoring
system was installed at Maneja. In this system, seven HT/
LT substations and 53 energy meters are connected to the
energy monitoring system that monitors energy consumption
patterns, and initiatives are further taken based on these
patterns, to reduce energy consumption.
.

The Company’s project sites have also taken initiatives to
make its operations clean using solar power. At the Mumbai
Infeed project site 15 kW; 545-watt Mono PERC modules
(24) are used to power the staff office

.

Six sets of solar-based mobile charging equipment, with
three lights and two USBs are installed in rest sheds and at
the worker colony

.

Seven CNG vehicles are used for site transportation instead
of petrol or diesel vehicles. Six of the GPQS project sites
use solar roof top for their offices and worker sheds

Water is an important resource that needs to be conserved since
most regions in India are water stressed. At Maneja, 23 water
meters are installed in the water distribution network to map
water consumption pattern of individual factories and their utilities
are tracked for leakage. This has resulted in reduction of water
wastage by 132 kl/day, 28.43% of total water consumption. In
the Maneja canteen, rejected water from the RO Plant is used for
utensil and floor cleaning, resulting in freshwater savings to ~14 kl/
day (4.56% of total water consumption).

30.8%
Water leakages arrested at Savli, with
optimised water usage resulting in significant
reduction of freshwater consumption as
compared to last year

Rejected RO water and STP
treated water are used for
sanitation purposes at Mysuru and
Doddaballapur respectively

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

23

The Company has taken several steps to minimise
waste across in its operations by reducing,
re‑using and recycling.

~5 MT
Avoidance of waste generation at Peenya and
Doddaballapur facilities with elimination of
nearly 65,000 paper cups per month

744 MT
Of dust reused and not disposed of as waste
Board dust reused as biofuel in boiler in the
form of briquettes at Mysuru

Waste paddy husk is used in boilers at Mysuru and the
resulting boiler dust from paddy husk is reused as soil
conditioner thereby promoting circularity. At Peenya, wood
waste is reused to make various articles such as planter
boxes, pen stands etc. preventing their disposal.

Carbon-neutral operations (goals)

23 tCO2 eq

GHG reduced along the value chain
Peace
The Company has a constant focus on safety, integrity and
quality that is non-negotiable in any situation, forming the
fundamental license to operate. Hitachi Energy India Limited
uses five pillars to drive the culture and performance and make
Safety, Integrity and Quality, part of its DNA. These are:
.

Organisation – the Company learns from events and
experiences, focusing on the human factor as the
most important

.

Skills – all employees are made aware of and trained on
policies and equipped with skills that empower them to act
on safety, integrity and quality

.

Processes – strong processes are deployed across the
organisation where rules are widely made aware, and
people across operations apply them, making constant
suggestions to improve the processes for safety, integrity
and quality

.

Compliance – the Company considers compliance a
responsibility and acts with transparency and speed to
mitigate disruptions and liabilities

.

Digital – technology is at the heart of the Company’s
offering and operations; digital management is deployed to
efficiently prevent, detect and resolve potential issues

A new Code of Ethics and Business Conduct was launched
in 2022-23, and over the year 2023-24, employees across
Hitachi Energy India Limited had the opportunity to internalise
the rules and principles that the code espouses to guide their
decision-making and actions.

Zero incidents of corruption
and bribery

24

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Partnerships

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

The partnership strategy and approach centers around
the following:

Hitachi Energy India Limited has increased involvement in
multi-stakeholder partnerships with a view to create positive
impact towards the country’s carbon-neutral energy goals by
exploring new technologies, business models and ways of
thinking.

.

Live lab for awareness, education, research and innovation

.

Real-life systems/operations in campus

.

Innovation platform for students, researchers, faculties
and industries

.

Ideation through hackathons, internships, joint projects

.

Industry expert lectures, faculty industrial visits

To meet the growing energy demand in the country the Company continues working with various leading
academic institutes through partnerships in FY 2023-24.

Smart & Sustainable
Community/Campus
IIT Roorkee

Asset Modelling &
Diagnostics Lab
BVM CE, Vallabh Vidyanagar

New Energy Lab – Integration,
Control & Protection
IIT Kharagpur

Smart Electric Grid Higher
Education & Lab
NIT Warangal

Smart eMobility
(eBus Charging Infra)
IIT Madras

Source: Surveyofindia
https://surveyofindia.gov.in/webroot/
UserFiles/files/1_16%282%29.pdf

Map not to scale and for representation purpose only

Hitachi Energy India Limited launched several initiatives at IIT Roorkee campus, including sponsoring electric vehicles to the
institute to enable green mobility, a 200 kVA micro-grid with battery energy storage facilitating smart energy management system
and a C-MAC lab.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

25

People
At Hitachi Energy India Limited, people form the heart of the
operations, and have been the solid core for the past seven
decades remaining an employer of choice. Committed to
delivering meaningful employee experiences and empowering
the workforce, the Company attracts and retains top talent to
add customer value and drive growth.
Besides the fundamental focus on health and safety, the
Company is also advancing diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI)
for a sustainable tomorrow.
.

.

26

Hitachi Energy has been driving a 'Women in Engineering’
program as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility
initiatives since 2020. The Company hosted women
students of engineering from Parul University and Maharaja
Sayaji University with four faculty members, to its Maneja
factory for an informative session. The visitors had the
opportunity to interact with the leadership team of India
To support women from underprivileged backgrounds to
pursue engineering, a day-long interactive session was
organised to induct the new batch of 51 women students
in their first year of engineering into the Company’s CSR
initiative ‘Women in Engineering.’ This multi-year program
encourages these women to pursue engineering by
helping overcome challenges due to their underprivileged
backgrounds. The students met N Venu, MD & CEO along
with Akilur Rahman, CTO, Hitachi Energy India Limited
Laptops were distributed to the students

Diversity 360 promises champions an inclusive culture built
on the commitment of equality for all; regardless of age,
education, gender, disability, religion, sexual orientation,
ethnicity or background. Diversity is central to policies and
processes, with emphasis on leadership, female acceleration,
talent & development, and encouraging women in STEM, to
fulfil the goal of achieving female diversity of 10% by 2025.

Zero harm
Encouraging employees to stay
healthy - physically and mentally
Life-long
Career development and ownership
through learning culture
Upto 16-18%
Gender diversity by 2030

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Growing through diversity
At Hitachi Energy, the fundamental belief is that employees are the cornerstone
of the Company’s success. So, in 2019, when Hitachi Energy took on a
renewed identity in India, the focus was to build an organisation that retained the
essence of its legacy while setting out a roadmap to create sustained value for
employees by delivering extraordinary experiences.
At the core of Diversity 360 is the Company’s goal to ensure its employees are provided with the
right environment and empowered to thrive. Accordingly, the entire employee experience is driven
along four key work streams: Leadership pillars, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I), female
acceleration, attract and grow people in order to deepen the commitment to equity and inclusion
to embrace unique and diverse identities at work, accelerate gender balance, enabling intersectionality,
allyship by creating an agile and connected environment.

Leadership pillars

Inclusion is everybody’s responsibility

The Company firmly believes that any successful strategy
begins with the active participation of leadership. Hence,
Hitachi Energy India Limited has ensured that the DE&I
strategy is embedded into everyday behaviors, policies, and
leadership decisions.

The role of male allies is crucial for promoting gender equity
and inclusion, achieved by raising awareness, advocating
for policies, mentoring and sponsoring women, actively
listening and learning from women's experiences, and being
role models for other men. It lays the framework for a more
equitable and just society where everyone, irrespective of their
differences and gender identities, has the opportunity to thrive
and succeed.

Over 400 leaders benefited from the Company’s in-house
upskilling programs that have bolstered them with tools to
excel in their roles, collaborate and accelerate innovation
across the organisation.
The culture of continuous learning and adaptation has been
emphasised through year-round learning and awareness
programs. Over 3,947 courses have been hosted for
employees on the Company’s digital learning platform,
Percipio. The launch of ExcelHer, a program designed to
nurture and empower the Company’s women leaders aims
to provide tailored support and development opportunities
towards successful careers.

Attract and grow
The Company facilitates multifold learning avenues that include
digital platforms as well as global and local programs that help
employees acquire essential skills to navigate their careers in a
constantly evolving professional sphere.

The Company continues to provide platforms for knowledgesharing by employees.

Living the promise of diversity, equity, and
inclusion
To create sustained changes at the workplace, the Company
has designed unique platforms for allyship to actively support
people from marginalised and underrepresented groups along
with advocacy to drive positive, structural change on specific
systemic issues.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

27

Female acceleration
Hitachi Energy India Limited’s key focus in India is a strong
commitment to accelerating gender balance by increasing
gender diversity. In line with this objective, the 2030 ambition
of your Company is to increase female diversity upto 16-18%
and improve women’s representation in top management and
middle management roles as well as early career hires.
The global Female Talent Development Program has two
cohorts of 15 participants every year to enable talent and
exposure in women employees and launched ExcelHer, a
program designed to nurture and empower its women leaders
with tailored support and development opportunities to help
them thrive.
A well-structured early talent framework helps support and
target high school/secondary school graduates through
apprenticeship programs, internships and thesis support
for university students, and local, non-STEM programs for
recent university graduates in line with business needs and
for entry‑level positions, along with a flagship global standard
program particularly for STEM graduates helps build a strong,
diverse and future-ready talent pool.

Focus: Increasing women’s representation
on the shop floor
The Company set aside specific roles on the floor wherein
female talent can be recruited and groomed with appropriate
mapping to managers.
As part of this initiative, ITI in Dahod was identified as the only
place in Gujarat where women are trained for electrical and
fitter trade. This is a remote forest range and tribal area, about
150 km from Baroda city. The team from Hitachi Energy India
Limited also visited six polytechnics in and around Vadodara
– the Panchmahal tribal base of Gujarat (Northern) – to recruit
talented women candidates.
To attract diploma engineers, the Company organised camps
at multiple polytechnic institutions and created a benchmark
to compare its engagement strategy with other companies to
attract female talent. Consulting sessions were conducted to
help them understand the business, build awareness of the
factory facilities and career opportunities.
Government officials and faculty from educational institutions
have been engaged through visits that showcase the facilities
and environment to promote the idea of onboarding more
women students.
Basic infrastructure has been developed at the factory
shop‑floor to address the comfort and needs of female
operators. Across High Voltage factories, the headcount of
women on the shop-floor grew by 45% in FY 2023-24.

28

EVENTS AND AWARDS

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Thought leadership – Leading the
conversation on the energy transition
Hitachi Energy India Limited’s participation in various prestigious forums is key to
foster engagement and collaborative avenues. While taking the lead and participating
in such initiatives, Hitachi Energy India Limited showcases innovative solutions that
pave the way for a robust, sustainable, and efficient energy system.

14th Clean Energy Ministerial and
8th Mission Innovation meeting in Goa
Claudio Facchin and N Venu from Hitachi Energy joined
leaders and think tanks from governments, international
organisations, industries, academia. This event was in sync
with the G20 Energy Transitions Ministerial Meeting (ETMM)
and included high-level ministerial dialogues, global initiative
launches, awards, and a minister-CEO roundtable aimed at
driving sustainability efforts.

The Energy Transition Dialogue co-hosted
by Observer Research Foundation and
The Global Energy Alliance for People and
Planet
N Venu, MD & CEO, Hitachi Energy India Limited joined a
panel discussion with global policy-makers, industry thoughtleaders, doyens from India’s private sector, financial services
and civil society discussed ways to overcome critical issues
impeding inclusive energy transition in the country.

ET EnergyWorld Solar Power Congress
N Venu, MD and CEO, Hitachi Energy India Limited,
shared his views on making solar accessible, reliable and
sustainable. This event takes participants into the future of
renewable energy. With a 1000-plus attending, there was
ample opportunity to showcase the latest breakthrough
innovations making solar accessible, reliable, and sustainable.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

29

India Smart Utility Week (ISUW)
Leaders from Hitachi Energy India Limited spoke at the ISUW
2024, organised by India Smart Grid Forum annually. N Venu,
MD & CEO, Hitachi Energy India Limited addressed the
inaugural session, while Akilur Rahman, CTO, Hitachi Energy
India Limited chaired a session on ‘Super grids for energy
transition and energy security – cross-border electricity trade
in South Asia and Interconnection of regional grids in Asia.’
Ajith Kesavan, Head of Grid Automation, Hitachi Energy India
Limited joined a panel discussion on ‘Digitalisation of utilities,
roadmaps; digital twins.’

Championing gender diverse expertise in power technologies
There is a great need for gender-diverse expertise to shine in
the industry. Towards this, the Company’s top women leaders
participate and serve as role models in events and forums
raising awareness and advocating gender equality in tech.
Hitachi Energy India Limited received the Silver Award at
the DEI Awards 2024 for consistently driving the narrative of
Diversity 360 across the organisation.
The Company’s experts engaged in the WeLeads Event,
which had an inspiring competition on the topic ‘Fostering a
more inclusive culture in the tech and power industry:
The power of diversity and representation of all groups.’
The intense discussion revolved around the significance of
diversity and representation in the tech and power industry.

30

Dr. Shivani Sharma, Principal Technical Consultant, Power
Consulting, Hitachi Energy India Limited represented the
importance of diversity at several events. She was an expert
panelist for SheLeads, an event by IEEE Netaji Subhas
University of Technology Student Branch and IEEE Delhi
Section WIE-PES.
She also spoke at a Women in Energy Roundtable on
Energy Storage, Electric Mobility and Green Hydrogen
during the 9th edition of India Energy Storage Week
(IESW) 2023.
In addition, the IESA Leadership and IESW Advisory
Board formally recognised Dr. Shivani Sharma as
A Woman Leader Driving Energy Sector in India;
ETN: India 50 - Influential Women Leader in
Energy Space.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Quality recognition from the industry
ecosystem
As a leader in pioneering technology aiming for a sustainable
energy future, the Company works relentlessly in the pursuit of
improvement and innovative solutions and in quality.

These efforts have met with industry approval and
recognition in the form of numerous awards
.

A case study on the ‘reduction of field failures of ETL600
product’ by the Grid Automation team in India won a gold
at the 32nd Chapter Convention on Quality Concepts
2023 by Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI). The case
study garnered another gold at the TQM-INDIA Summit
2023 by Quality Circle Forum of India, which was themed
‘Breakthrough Quality Solutions – Unlocking Values’.
The High Voltage India feeder factory team and GIS
factory team and GIS factory received the prestigious
Par Excellence Award at the 37th National Convention on
Quality Concepts by QCFI in Nagpur. The team showcased
how shipping efficiency can be optimised while significantly
reducing CO2 emissions.

.

The American Society for Quality awarded Hitachi Energy
India Limited Transformer team (Bushing) the 5th place
out of 37 participants for its case study on ‘Quality
strengthening by Tan delta improvement in OIP bushing’
through various Kaizen practices to ensure sustainability
of the grid at the 12th Annual International conference
organised by the ASQ, India chapter in Ahmedabad.

.

Teams from High Voltage GIS-PASS, Transformer (Bushing
WC & BC) High Voltage India Feeder Factory MEB bagged
various awards at the QCFI convention on Kaizen and
7 MUDAs. Transformer Team presented case studies
on Safety and Quality improvement projects. The High
Voltage GIS- PASS team presented case studies on Energy
Conservation best practices while the High Voltage Feeder
Factory MEB team presented case studies on Product Cost
Reduction and best practices.

.

Hitachi Energy India Limited’s representatives also
participated in Kaizen Scheme initiative by TCS Mysuru,
winning a certificate, reward, and a rolling trophy for the
best Kaizen.

.

The Company continues on its path of strategically
investing in its factories, R&D centers, customer learning
centers, etc., to ensure operations across the ecosystem
are matched and maintained in line with the evolving needs
of India’s energy sector. This focus on delivering to the
highest standards have received accolades from various
government programs and industry bodies including the
Central Electricity Authority (CEA) in India.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

31

Demonstrating manufacturing excellence
The Company continues to set the benchmark for manufacturing excellence, receiving several
awards to this effect.

The former Union Minister for Heavy Industries, Dr. Mahendra Pandey, felicitated your Company’s Dry Bushing Factory during
BHEL Samvaad 3.0, for its commitment to the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and the Make in India initiatives of the Government
of India.

Varun Parker, Product Manager - Feeder Factory India High Voltage, and Lokesh Patni, Manager - Quality Control
– Transformers won the Champions of Manufacturing award
at the Festival of Manufacturing to celebrate 10 Years of
#MakeinIndia. This award was a recognition of their inspiring
journey in manufacturing.

32

The Hitachi EnergyTEC training center was recognised by
CEA under category I (Grade B) for training conducted on the
operation and maintenance of transmission and distribution
segments of the power sector for four years w.e.f 04 July 2023
to 03 July 2027.
Hitachi EnergyTEC has conducted nearly 200 trainings for
more than 6,550 industry experts (greater than 10,000‑man
days of training) at its state-of-the-art experience center since
its inception in 2019.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Leading with precision
At Hitachi Energy India Limited, we are committed to driving pioneering
advancements that inspire positive change. Our esteemed Board of Directors
is a diverse group of experienced leaders, each bringing unique expertise and
perspectives. Their collective wisdom, strategic guidance, and unwavering
commitment to excellence are crucial in shaping our company’s path as a leader
in providing innovative, reliable, and sustainable energy solutions.

Achim Michael Braun

N. Venu

Ismo Antero Haka

Chairman

Managing Director & CEO

Director

Akila Krishnakumar

Mukesh Hari Butani

Meena Ganesh

Independent Director

Independent Director

Independent Director

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

33

COUNTRY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE

Confident leadership, purposeful direction
Hitachi Energy India Limited has promising leadership pillars that provide purposeful
direction, creating connections among people that promote their potential, enhance
performance and achieve a purpose-driven growth.

From left to right (back row)

From left to right (front row)

Ajith Kesavan, Head of Grid Automation

Manashwi Banerjee, Head of Communications

Rakesh Dwivedi, Head of High Voltage Products

Ramkumar D, Head of Grid Power Quality Solution

Karthik Krishnamurthi, Head of Sales and Marketing

N Venu, Managing Director & CEO

Ajay Singh, Chief Financial Officer

Saji S, Head of High Voltage Direct Current

Atul Pandit, Head of Transformers

Neha Ahluwalia, Head of Human Resources

Akilur Rahman, Chief Technology Officer

Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel and
Company Secretary

34

CORPORATE INFORMATION

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Corporate Information
Board of Directors
Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
Nuguri Venu
Managing Director and CEO
Ismo Antero Haka
Director
Akila Krishnakumar
Independent Director
Mukesh Hari Butani
Independent Director
Meena Ganesh
Independent Director

Audit Committee
Mukesh Hari Butani
Chairperson

Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee
Akila Krishnakumar
Chairperson

8th Floor, Brigade Opus,
70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560 092

Achim Michael Braun
Member

Cost Auditors
M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates

Nuguri Venu
Member

Risk Management Committee
Mukesh Hari Butani
Chairman
Meena Ganesh
Member
Ismo Antero Haka
Member
Nuguri Venu, Member

Akila Krishnakumar
Member

Ajay Singh, Member

Meena Ganesh
Member

Environment, Social and
Governance Committee

Nuguri Venu
Member

Meena Ganesh
Chairperson

Stakeholders’ Relationship
Committee
Meena Ganesh
Chairperson
Mukesh Hari Butani
Member

Akila Krishnakumar
Member
Achim Michael Braun
Member
Nuguri Venu
Member

Statutory Auditors

Ismo Antero Haka
Member

Chartered Accountants
12th Floor, UB City, Canberra Block,
No 24, Vittal Mallya Road,
Bengaluru - 560 001

Akila Krishnakumar
Chairperson
Mukesh Hari Butani
Member
Achim Michael Braun
Member

Cost Accountant
801-2, Goyal Trade Center, Above Sona
Cinema, Shantivan,
Near National Park, Borivali (East),
Mumbai - 400 066

Secretarial Auditors
M/s. BMP & Co. LLP
Company Secretaries 4272, Sapthagiri,
2nd Floor, Vivekananda Park
Road, Near Seetha Circle,
Girinagar, Bengaluru - 560 085

Registrar and Share Transfer
Agents
KFin Technologies Limited
Unit: Hitachi Energy India Limited
Selenium, Tower B,
Plot 31-32, Gachibowli,
Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally Mandal,
Hyderabad - 500 032

Bankers

Nuguri Venu
Member

Nomination and Remuneration
Committee

Registered Office

M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP

Chief Financial Officer
Ajay Singh

General Counsel,
Company Secretary and
Compliance Officer
Poovanna Ammatanda

Axis Bank Limited
Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of Bhutan Limited
Deutsche Bank AG
Druk PNB Bank Limited
HDFC Bank Limited
ICICI Bank Limited
JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
State Bank of India
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited
Yes Bank Limited

Corporate Identity Number
L31904KA2019PLC121597

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

35

BUSINESS MODEL

Sustainable energy solutions
for a greener tomorrow
As a technology leader that is advancing a
sustainable energy future for all, Hitachi Energy
India Ltd. operates in four business units - Grid
Integration Business Unit, Grid Automation
Business Unit, High Voltage Product Business
Unit and Transformer Business Unit. Your
Company is committed to advancing India’s
energy system to be more sustainable, flexible
and secure and collaborates with customers
and partners to enable a sustainable energy
future – for today’s generations and those to
come.
Hitachi Energy India Limited has a large set
of products that operates within the energy
sector, focusing on providing a wide range of
products, systems, and services that enhance
the reliability, efficiency, and sustainability of
electricity grids. The products and services
extend to industrial giants, data centers, public
sector and state power utilities, railways and
metro projects and various other key segments
both in India and as export to other countries.
The business operates on the back of a strong
order book and an even better order backlog,
sustainably showing growth in revenue and
profitability across the years.

36

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

37

STRATEGY

Strategy and
resource allocation
Hitachi Energy India Limited aims to grow sustainably and also
profitably by expanding business operations. The Company
is committed to delivering faster than market growth. In doing
so, capital expenditure is increased on various business units;
additionally, there is a focus to launch new products in digital
and air-insulated switchgear and the Company is working on
building local capabilities on e-Mobility and energy storage.
Hitachi Energy India Limited has increased its focus on certain
business opportunities with industrial customers and intends
to pursue a plan to have higher visibility in the digital market
category.
In line with its belief that the climate change challenge faced
today is bigger than one company or one nation, the Company
leverages close synergies with members of global parent
company on various projects - especially leveraging the digital
expertise of GlobalLogic. Other partnerships include those
in areas of smart energy and management solutions. These
actions reiterate the importance your Company is placing on
market penetration while adding value to customers.
Along with growth, the Company is also focused on
sustainable practices as it puts net-zero and carbon-neutral
practices at the forefront by making its offices carbon-neutral
and also manufacturing sites heavily relied on renewable
power. Your Company has reduced 50% emissions, 25%
of fresh water and hazardous wastes and substances
respectively in its journey to carbon neutrality. At Hitachi
Energy India Limited, work-place safety is the first priority, with
a strong HSE (health, safety and environment) function across
the Company that works to achieve zero harm and no injuries.
Your Company is also committed to creating an equitable
workplace and an inclusive culture, taking steps to work
towards gender diversity.

38

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

39

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT

Partnering for progress
Hitachi Energy India Limited focusses on nurturing positive stakeholder
relationships across the business ecosystem. As a company that has a
presence in India for over seven decades, and one that is providing critical
products and services to the power infrastructure of the nation, stakeholder
relationships play a strong role in the way that the Company operates.

Stakeholders
In today's dynamic energy landscape, success hinges on a
collaborative ecosystem where your Company, as a global
pioneering technology leader, partners with its various
stakeholders. Engaging with them allows Hitachi Energy
India Limited to understand their perspectives and align
its strategies with their needs. The company supports a
variety of collaboration structures to drive joint success.

40

These stakeholders, encompassing customers, employees,
governments, investors, and more are companions in our
purpose-driven growth. Together with stakeholders across
sectors and geographies also listed in the Principle 4 of
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report ( BRSR).
Your Company is advancing a sustainable energy future for all.
Stakeholder engagement has been a catalyst of its progress
with proactive support, communication and enhanced
reliability and trust.

Integrated Report

Corporate Overview

Customers

Employees

.

.

.

.

For your Company the customers
are the cornerstone of its business,
pushing us to constantly innovate
and co-create for a cleaner and more
efficient energy future.
Your Company actively
seek customer feedback
through interactive platforms
around technology tours,
management interactions.

Quarterly townhalls with our talented
and passionate workforce to drive
safety, quality and innovation culture

.

Continuous learning through cuttingedge training programs, internal
engagements, and diversity &
inclusion initiatives.

.

Annually employee engagement
surveys, performance management
and other initiatives.

We have regularly connected with
our customers through needbased engagements.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Governments and
community
.

We continue to collaborate
with policymakers on platforms
that foster dialogues that drive
conducive policies that add social,
environmental, and economic value.

.

Through meetings, participation
in industry forums, and occasionbased commitments, we routinely
connect with the government, which
is leading our key commitment
to sustainability.

.

As we encourage sustainability and
inclusivity in the organisation, we
collaborate with the community to
take the message forward with our
initiatives toward stem education and
sustainability drive.

Investor community

Suppliers

Industry associations

.

Investors are our partners in driving
long-term value creation for all
stakeholders and society. They are
enabling us to progress with purpose

.

.

.

Your Company have followed
transparent and proactive
communication practices through
our regular briefings, filings
and reporting

Your Company continues to
collaborate with suppliers and
partners through annual workshops,
also implementing need-based
sustainability initiatives through
knowledge-sharing events
and training

.

Review Supplier Sustainability
Development program with focus on
carbon reduction

.

Identify new vendors in scope
and resources and provide
sufficient training

Partnerships with industry
associations and initiatives such
as the Confederation of Indian
Industry(CII), Indian Electrical and
Electronic Manufacturer Association
(IEEMA), CIGRE (Council on Large
Electric Systems), India Smart Grid
Forum (ISGF) enable industrywide collaboration at national and
international forums, address critical
issues, and forge strategic alliances,
creating a growth environment for
the industry at large

.

Profile SSDP as a key program and
career path

.

Various cadence communication
varying from monthly to quarterly
timeframes; we continue to engage
with our stakeholders typically
through in-person, physical events,
and also virtual formats

.

A detailed description covering the
various stakeholders’ initiatives and
engagement programs are disclosed
in principle 4 to the business
responsibility and sustainability
report forming part of the integrated
annual report 2023-24

.

The Company continues to connect
with its investors on a quarterly
basis. In addition, your Company
had an in-person meeting for the
institutional investors and advisors

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

41

RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES

Anticipating challenges,
seizing opportunities
Hitachi Energy India Limited’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) function
facilitates early identification of emerging risks and associated opportunities and
oversees the diligent execution of risk mitigation and counter measure plans.
The purpose of the Company’s ERM programme is to facilitate visibility of
risks and initiate cross-organisational dialogue to stimulate prioritisation, speed
of decision making and general accountability when it comes to addressing
material changes in external/internal environment; while considering company’s
organisational context (purpose, objectives, strengths & weaknesses).

The ERM function’s activities include but are not
limited to
.

Design and facilitation of periodic enterprise risk
assessment campaigns.

.

Triggering of enterprise-level responses to prioritised
risk themes.

An annual risk campaign is conducted that identifies and
aligns key risk themes and actions that need to be taken
across stakeholder groups. The risk management team also
facilitates the mitigation of complex, cross-functional risk, for
which ownership is not evident.
Your Company’s ERM provides an opportunity to escalate the
need to take actions outside of regular business/functional
risk management activities throughout the year. The target
risk portfolio are unattended action themes with enterprisewide implications, requiring cross-organisational collaboration
on one hand but a clear designation of accountability on the
other. Throughout the year, prioritised remediations proposals
are presented to the country management team and the
country risk management committee to approve individual
implementation projects.

42

Information Security Management System
(ISMS)
Your Company has an information security organisation in
place, which consists of a dedicated team of information
security professionals and a country-level cybersecurity
manager works under the leadership of the head of
cybersecurity.
Hitachi Energy Group has implemented ISMS based on
the ISO/IEC 27001 standard, which provides a systematic
framework for building, implementing, and maintaining
information security policies and procedures. The ISMS
covers all internal data handling activities, such as human
resources security, IT asset management, physical security,
operational security, and external considerations like legal/
regulatory compliance, supplier screening, and data protection
regulations. The ISMS also guides the risk-based approach to
identifying, assessing, evaluating, and treating cybersecurity
risks, as well as the information classification, user awareness,
access control, cryptography, network/infrastructure,
resilience, and disposal practices.

Cybersecurity certifications
The Hitachi Energy Group aims to be a leader in certifications
relating to cyber- and information security, and to continually
improve its cybersecurity posture. Hitachi Energy India Ltd.
has achieved ISO/IEC 27001 certification for the organisation,
as well as certifications to IEC 62443 for its service operations,
product development, systems, and products. IEC 62443 is
an internationally recognised series of standards that focuses
on cybersecurity for operational technology (OT) in automation
and control systems. Hitachi Energy Group also maintains
an overview of other cybersecurity standards and their
relationship to ISO/IEC 27001 and IEC 62443.

Integrated Report

Corporate Overview

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Product cybersecurity

Operational Security

Hitachi Energy Group takes product cybersecurity seriously
and is focused on taking all measures to secure a product
from external threats. Hitachi Energy Group has established
a Cybersecurity Council that takes the lead on protection
of products and defines protective cybersecurity release
requirements and common security standards. The goal of
the Cybersecurity Council is to establish strong governance
and risk management to minimise cybersecurity risks in your
Company’s product offerings.

Hitachi Energy Group follows industry best practices such
as Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) 4
and the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST) recommendations to effectively manage detected
cybersecurity incidents. Hitachi Energy Global has developed
and implemented a Cybersecurity incident management
program operated by their Cyber Defense Center (CDC).
All security incidents are recorded, analyzed, confirmed,
classified, and prioritized by the team and appropriate
remediation actions are taken in response. The impacted data,
service, or application is restored/recovered. Following the
recovery, an in-depth evaluation is conducted and recorded
to help avoid similar situations in the future. Security incident
evaluations may result in immediate operational procedure
updates, reconfiguration of IT systems, implementation of
additional controls, end user awareness training, and other
responsive actions.

Cybersecurity compliance
Hitachi Energy Group is fully committed to comply with
applicable cybersecurity laws, directives, acts, regulations,
etc., especially in the domain of critical national infrastructure.
Hitachi Energy Group has established a Cybersecurity
Compliance Team that maintains an overview of all the
regulations relevant and applicable to the respective countries
entities and manages programs to ensure compliance with
respect to its IT, cybersecurity, corporate functions, system
and product offerings. Hitachi Energy India Ltd. tracks,
measures and reviews cybersecurity to ensure compliance
with Information Technology Act 2000 and CERT-In
directive 2022.

Supplier security
Hitachi Energy Group applies stringent protocols to all
products, systems, services, and data, and expects its
suppliers to support and complement its efforts to keep its
systems and information safe. Hitachi Energy Group has
implemented a vendor security assessment and IT security risk
assessment process, which must be successfully completed
before onboarding a new supplier. At Hitachi Energy
India Limited all the contracts with suppliers include strict
confidentiality obligations, as well as detailed data protection
and security obligations for processing personal data.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

43

REACH & SOLUTIONS

Empowering growth with
comprehensive energy solutions
Outlook
Your Company is well-positioned to fulfill the demand
arising from greater investments in capacity enhancement
and digitalisation by utilities, manufacturing, rail, e-mobility,
and data centers. A wide-ranging product portfolio with a
good mix of traditional and digital products and solutions traction transformers, dry-type transformers, switchgears,
SCADA systems, energy management systems, substations,
power electronics-based HVDC, Flexible AC Transmission
Systems (FACTS), city reliable power infeed, grid automation,
microgrids, Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS), electric
systems for Green Hydrogen, Integrated Fleet Charging for
EVs and electric buses, AI-ML based Asset Performance
Management, Distributed Energy Resources Management,
augmented by Hitachi’s world-class digital technologies
ensure strong business potential for your Company.
The rise in generation capacity from varied renewable
generation set-ups also requires enhancement of the
transmission network. As per the Central Electricity Authority
(CEA), India requires a substantial investment of H 4.75
trillion by 2027 for developing its transmission infrastructure,
including lines, substations, and reactive compensation.
Goldman Sachs estimates that the transmission capex is
expected to have the second largest share of over $500 billion
of the total energy transition capex requirement of $1.7 trillion
over the next 25 years. This presents a significant opportunity
for the Company’s core T&D business.
Currently, half of all HVDC links in India transmit power with
Hitachi Energy technologies. With one HVDC project expected
every year and two HVDC projects to be awarded in the next
12 months, your Company is well-prepared to meet such
projects with proven expertise enabled by local manufacturing
capacity.
For the offshore segment, a comprehensive range of products,
solutions, and services help reduce costs, increase safety, and
improve efficiency, including an innovative offshore portfolio
of transformers that can operate in environments with salinity
and hydrocarbon, extreme weather conditions like hurricanes,
typhoons, winds, etc.

44

With greater focus on power system flexibility to reach India’s
renewable energy targets, your Company’s innovations in
products and systems ably help manage power variability from
renewable sources. Impetus to BESS and smart grids offers
us an advantage as early entrants in this space.
Hitachi Energy India Limited has been a long-standing trusted
partner to the transport sector in India offering high-tech
products and solutions for electrification of Railways, Metro
projects, High-speed rail and e-mobility. From Energy Traction
Transformers for Railways to power automation for metro rail
systems, and innovative flash and fleet charging solutions
Grid-eMotion™ Flash and GrideMotion™ Fleet, the Company’s
seamless solutions power sustainable transport. With a goal of
100% rail electrification, rolling stock upgrade, and 1,058 km
of metro rail network in 27 cities offering an additional area of
play, your Company sees immense potential to further enable
clean mobility in India.
Data centers are set to double capacity by 2025. Hitachi
Energy India Limited has the capability to power data centers
of the future with reliable power and eco-efficient solutions.
Moreover, tighter industry ESG pledges and greater cloud
adoption necessitate rapid digitalisation. Your Company’s
offerings of sustainable digital and power quality products &
solutions ensure reliability, increase efficiency, and productivity
through system design.
The Company has a complete range of power and distribution
transformers and other power equipment, that supports
utilities and industrials to maximise return on assets investment
by ensuring high reliability, reducing life cycle costs, and
ensuring optimised performance while lowering environmental
impact. From power islanding solution to ensure reliable quality
power for the world’s largest oil refinery in Gujarat to digital
transformers in India’s oldest steel plants, digital substations
for round-the-clock power to IT parks, your Company is
energising the pace of industrial transformation.

Integrated Report

Corporate Overview

Strategic focus and future orientation

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Hitachi Energy India Limited is also focusing on its own
operations to make them sustainable and efficient:

Hitachi Energy India Limited has shown growth year over year
in terms of revenue from operations over the year and has
grown at a CAGR of ~13% from FY 2019-20 to FY 2023-24 by
adding more products into the catalogue and expanding the
manufacturing capacities to meet the customer demands.
As a part of the strategy for sustainable growth Hitachi Energy
India Limited takes initiatives to expand the customer base and
build new and advanced products that can help the customers
have uninterrupted power supply by adopting sustainable
operation practices.
The strategy adopted by Hitachi Energy India Limited to grow
business sustainably can create value in the short, medium
and long term.

Some of the key steps proposed by your Company
to achieve greater access to the ever-growing
market are:
.

Investments focused on localised portfolio for emerging
segments like E-Mobility, BESS and Hydrogen, also
towards enhancing existing portfolio, exploring mergers
and acquisition, and expanding sales portfolio.

.

Stamping authority of the growing market can be achieved
by partnerships with other companies, modification
of business models as your company keeps growing,
expanding the channel operations and through strategic
market capture.

.

Doubling up the digital and services from the current levels
by 2030 is another strategy that has been tabulated and
the results have started to reflect as your company has
expanded its business in last couple of years.

.

Organising Energy and Digital Workshops (EDW) across
the various zones of the country, where several strategic
customers from utilities, transport, industries, data centers,
new energy business, renewables, power generation, etc.
are invited and educated about our products and services
in India. The events of same magnitude are carried on in
neighboring countries like Sri Lanka and Bangladesh to
attract more customers.

.

As a pioneering technology leader Hitachi Energy India
Limited collaborates with customers and partners to enable
a sustainable energy future – for today’s generations and
those to come.

.

The Company has made sure that the governance is
smoothly managed for growing operations and speed
of decision making is ramped up, the management is
empowered, and risk management is in place.

The practices and strategy going ahead will lay the foundation
stone to attract new talent to deliver upon the projects, create
value added products, bring in innovation in the technology
and research and development for new products. The strategy
will be instrumental in implementing sustainability in the
operations through innovative practices.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

45

GOVERNANCE

Integrity and
transparency
at every level
The Company’s governance structure plays a crucial role
in shaping the decision-making process, ensuring that it is
aligned with our strategic objectives and the interests of all
the stakeholders at large. Our governance structure, aligned
with the global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, is
crucial in supporting the delivery of our strategic objectives
while ensuring ethical conduct and transparency at every
level. Further, our corporate governance framework also
promotes ethical practices throughout the organisation, while
transparent communication ensures effective engagement
with Stakeholders. Your Company is also certified for
ISO:37001: 2016 for Anti-bribery management system.
Please see Corporate Governance Report which forms part of
this Integrated Annual Report 2023-24.

46

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

47

CAPITAL SEGMENT

Financial capital
Hitachi Energy India Limited has
always placed importance on financial
health as a parameter of business
success. The efficient management of
financial capital plays a significant role in
demonstrating stakeholder value, stability
as a business, continuity of operations
and adds to the creation of value on all
other fronts.

The Company’s focus on financial capital has seen results
through a focused strategy of business growth, operational
efficiency, fostering synergies within the ecosystem, and
driving innovation.
Your Company has created financial capital through its leading
position in energy transition and history of technological
expertise. With energy being the backbone of the economy,
the Company has pursued a focused strategy based on
customer needs. Diversifying the portfolio of products and
services, enhancing digitalisation and keeping track of changing
customer demand helped improve the bottom-line. Along with
this, granular monitoring of operational complexity and pursuit of
efficiencies helped in margins and pursuit of growth.
Funds generated from the Company’s operations and financing
activities are utilised to deliver long-term sustainable growth and
value creation to its stakeholders. Hitachi Energy India Limited
will continue investing in capex expansion, supporting its newage manufacturing sites and supply chain, which will enable
your Company to deliver superior products to its customers.

48

Growth trajectory
Hitachi Energy India Limited is seeing growth from key factors
that are fundamental to market and economic growth. The
transition of every industry towards low-carbon operations
or renewable energy resulted in orders from renewables
and power quality. Digitalisation as an overarching trend
was instrumental in growth from sectors like data centers
and demand was also seen from electric mobility due to
increasing urbanisation. The Company also expanded its
position as a supplier for export markets like Asia, Europe, the
US and Africa. With its digital offerings and enhanced power
consulting capabilities, your Company is firmly on a growth
path, partnering other industries in their transition to net zero.

Integrated Report

Corporate Overview

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Inputs (H in Crores) | as on March 31, 2024

Net Profit

1,359.9

Your Company’s net profit stood at H 163.8 Crores against
H 93.9 Crores in FY 2022-23.

Net worth

Order Backlog
Order backlog was at of H 7,229.5 Crores at year-end.

150.0

Dividend

Short term borrowings

The Board has also recommended an equity dividend of 200%
amounting to H 4 per share of face value H 2 each.

67.6

Operational EBIDTA

CAPEX (For the year ended March 31, 2024)

Outputs (H in Crores) | as on March 31, 2024

5,246.8
Revenue

At H 350.2 Crores or 6.7% Operational EBIDTA was a result
of a favorable revenue mix, operational excellence and
digitalisation efforts.

Profit Before Tax
Profit before tax stood at H 221.7 Crores, up 69.5% YoY.

Profit After Tax
Profit after tax was at H 163.8 Crores, up 74.4% YoY.

		

Debt and Interest

6.7%

Your Company’s current ratio was at 1.16 and interest
coverage ratio at 5.31, showing strength in its balance sheet
and its ability to maximise capital. Your Company’s debtor
turnover ratio was 3.44, indicating its robust collection
processes. However, your Company is also discussing
potential repayment mechanisms to clear historical overdue.

Op EBITDA

12.7%			

Inventory turnover stood at 3.99. Net profit margin was at
3.1 percent.

ROE			

In FY 2023-24, the interest cost borne by your Company was
H 46.6 Crores. As on March 31, 2024, your Company had a net
debt of H 22.0 Crores. In terms of foreign currency exposure
– for imports and exports – your Company continued to
conservatively hedge at the point of commitment to protect
the contract margins.

29,547.2
Market capitalisation

		

Credit Ratings
The company’s consistent ratings signify its ability to meet
financial obligations and inspire confidence among investors
and stakeholders.

Total orders
Your Company generated total orders of H 5,536.3 Crores in
FY 2023-24, increased by ~14% YoY over the corresponding
period for FY 2022-23, while excluding HVDC orders.

Long Term Rating

Short Term Rating

A1+

AAA/Stable

Revenue
The revenue for FY 2023-24 stood at H 5,246.8 Crores with a
17% increase during the same period last financial year.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

49

Manufactured
capital
Hitachi Energy India Limited with its
targeted CAPEX is focusing on expanding
manufacturing units across all four
business units, doubling up digital and
services and building partnerships
with strategic partners to strengthen
its portfolio. With the expansion of
manufacturing units, the Company will be
able to scale its production multiple folds
and meet the order backlog.

The Company has invested more than H 250 Crores in the last
three years to expand its manufacturing base. Hitachi Energy
India Limited is constantly evaluating its current infrastructure
and in the near future have plans for adding to its existing
capabilities. The expenditure on capital expansion will be
instrumental in meeting the customer orders and delivering
high value products successfully and on time.

Data centers

FY 2023-24 key projects and impact

Hitachi Energy India Limited has supported the customer at
two different locations, Hyderabad and Pune by providing
Power Transformers and GIS Support. By maximising
electrical system resilience, improving overall sustainability
of the data center and boosting profitability, we’ve built our
reputation on solving real-world challenges, helping to unlock
our partners’ and customers’ full power potential.

Renewables
Ayana Renewables: 300MW Ebos package -Kanasar
-Bikaner-II & 400/33 kV AIS SS -Bikaner Solar
Hitachi Energy India Limited through this project will
help the client evacuate 300 MW of renewable energy
from solar module to the grid at Bikaner, Rajasthan and
contribute in India’s carbon neutral and energy transition
initiatives by providing solutions to green energy market.

50

For India’s largest Hyperscale Data Center Provider
.

4x90 MVA 220/330kV Power Transformer for a leading
technology giant for their Hyderabad data center: HYD 01 &
HYD 11 and PNQ06 Data Centre​

.

2X220kV GIS Project for a leading technology giant for its
Pune data center, PNQ04 and PNQ06

Integrated Report

Corporate Overview

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Industry

Transmission

India’s largest battery manufacturer

Leading integrated power transmission developer

220/11kV GIS Substation at KIADB Devanahalli and 11 x
2.5MVA, 11/0.433kV & 24 x 2.5MVA, 11/0.4kV Dry Transformer
for Li-Ion Cell, Pack & Module Mfg. plant.

600MVAr Fatehgarh-3 STATCOM

Hitachi Energy India Limited will provide GIS Substation and
multiple transformers to customers for the greenfield lithiumion cell manufacturing project at Bangalore. The project will
provide Li-ion cells for automotive and industrial applications,
helping the client to reduce fossil fuel consumption.

India’s fastest growing and most admired sustainable
technology led EPC
22x3.25/4MVA 33KV, 20x3.75/4.5MVA 33kV & 20x3.25/4MVA
6.6KV Dry DT - a EPC A/c a global leader in semiconductors ,
Sanand, Gujarat
The first India-made semiconductor chips will roll out from
end user packaging unit in Gujarat’s Sanand in the first half of
2025, which would be used for data centers, smartphones,
notebooks, and Internet of Things (IoT) devices. Hitachi Energy
provides over 60 Dry Type transformers for the plant that
would revolutionise the semiconductor industry in India.

Transportation

Hitachi Energy India Limited would be providing customer
with a STATCOM for the Fatehgarh-III project that will
evacuate 20 GW Solar Power to the grid. The first STATCOM
implementation by a private company in India is also a
landmark in Hitachi Energy India Limited’s portfolio as they
bring in a quality product helping the customer in contributing
toward clean and renewable energy to the grid for India’s
energy transition.
National power transmission utility’s Manesar
operations - NTAMC & RTAMC SCADA replacement​
NTAMC (National Transmission Asset Management Centre)
has been established for centralised remote control and
monitoring of the grid substations which are geographically
located all across India. Further, all Regional Headquarters
have RTAMC (Regional Transmission Asset Management
Centre). RTAMC of NR-1 region is co-located with Main
NTAMC and similarly, RTAMC of SR-2 region is co-located
with Backup NTAMC. Hitachi Energy India Limited has enabled
India’s pioneer transmission body to upgrade its SCADA
system enabling them to have modern communication and
network control to manage the National Grid of the Country.

Leading railway locomotive manufacturer
157 X LOT 6500 Traction Transformer
The technology and market leader in power grids will deliver its
transformers to Indian Railways, which aims to become a
net-zero carbon emitter by 2030. This will help Hitachi
Energy to contribute to accelerating electrification and
decarbonisation of the world’s transportation and rail sectors.
Indian multinational engaged in EPC Projects, Hi-Tech
Manufacturing and Services. In the Chennai metro rail projects
won the order to supply
.

CRP, SAS & RTU- 3 & 5

.

132 kV GIS

.

6x42 MVA, 110/27 kV, 1 Ph; & 6x40 MVA, 110/33 kV,
3 Ph Trafos.: Phase II Corridor – 3 & 5

.

03x2MVA, 07x1.6MVA, 63x1.25MVA, 09x500KVA,
33x315kVA, 04x200kVA Dry Type Transformer phase-II

The project aims to not only inter-connect existing metro
networks for providing a seamless ride to commuters but to
cope with increased traffic congestion and road accidents in
Chennai. In addition, regional economic development will be
promoted by expanding the mass rapid transportation system
in the Chennai region. Hitachi Energy India Limited contributes
to the sustainable development of the transportation system
making lives of people easy to commute across places.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

51

Human capital
Hitachi Energy India Limited strives to provide
a safe, inclusive and conducive working
environment for every employee. The diverse,
experienced and talented employees are your
Company’s strength in this VUCA (Volatile,
Unpredictable, Complex and Ambiguous)
world. They play a critical role in driving your
Company’s operations, delivering and growing
the business with their passion, excellence and
innovative spirit.
Hitachi Energy India Limited believes in attracting
the right talent to position the organisation for
growth, and in creating a conducive environment
for employees to perform at their best, learn and
grow their careers.

Connecting people to potential and
performance: Value-based performance
management
For Hitachi Energy India Limited, sustainable growth is at the
heart of business. In order to drive sustainable growth, the
Company champions people, focusing on building an inclusive
work environment that values diverse perspectives. Your
Company’s efforts are led by prioritising both customers and
society, based in a strong set of values – harmony, sincerity
and pioneering spirit.

52

To nurture an inclusive yet performance-driven culture, Hitachi
Energy India Limited has put in place a comprehensive
system that encourages employees at a holistic level,
considering their competency as well as their behavior.
New value-based competencies were launched which include
expected behaviors relevant to all Hitachi Energy India Limited
employees, irrespective of roles they play in the organisation.
These competencies are connected to the performance
management program, linking performance to business goals
and culture goals. These competencies are designed based
on your Company values – harmony, sincerity, and pioneering
spirit. They embrace both the Company’s business strategy
and people strategy that includes elements like DEI (Diversity
Equity and Inclusion) and growth mindset.

Harmony

e

People Champion

Customer & Society Focus

Financial Statements

Cultivate an inclusive work environment based on
safety and trust, which values diverse perspectives and
encourages speaking up and growth so that we can
perform at our best.

Innovation

Focus

Growth

c i et y

Sustainable

Pioneering Spirit

So

People C

tom

Statutory Reports

Sincerity

Cu s

ha

pi

on

Integrated Report

r&

m

Corporate Overview

Focus on societal challenges, always act honestly,
and be accountable for contributing to society through
collaboration with internal and external stakeholders.

Innovation
Drive innovation with a passion for learning,
challenge the status quo and respond with speed
to create new value.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

53

A culture of lifelong learning
Creating an environment of growth for the employees of your
Company is attained by fostering a culture of lifelong learning.
Hitachi Energy India Limited believes in the transformative
power of continuous education. This culture of learning drives
employees to chart their own personal learning journeys,
aligning with both present requirements and future aspirations.

Strategic, culture building,
mindset shift - open to ALL
Power Your Leadership

.

Interrupting
Unconscious Bias

.

Learning Agility

Essential skills which are
relevant to Hitachi Energy open to ALL
.

Digital

.

Leading Hybrid Teams

.

Working in Hybrid Teams

.

Working Across Cultures

.

goFLUENT Language Learning

54

Leadership
Suite

Upskilling
Suite

Power Your Learning with Percipio
Hitachi Energy Collaborative Learning

.

Your Company provides a diverse array of learning avenues,
including digital platforms and global and local programs.
Career paths can be charted and navigated from the
moment someone joins as an intern to taking on the mantle
of leadership. The Company offers several learning avenues,
including digital platforms equipped with global and local
programs, in-person trainings, on the job trainings, and
development programs in association with recognised
leadership institutes.

Management pipeline
education - open for
all INCUMBENTS

Management
Suite

Talent
Development
Suite

.

Hitachi Ready to Lead (R2L)

.

Hitachi GAP-M

.

People Manager Journey

Acceleration programs, linking
tightly with Talent Management
outcomes - nomination &
invitation only via Talent Review
Sessions (TRS)
.

Female Talent
Development Program

.

Hitachi GAP-L/GAP-K

Integrated Report

Corporate Overview

Over 400 leaders benefited from your Company’s in-house
upskilling programs, that equip them with the tools to
excel in their roles, collaborate with their teams and drive
innovation within the organisation. Please refer to learning and
development section of MD&A forming a part of the Integrated
Annual Report 2023-24.
Various development programs like People Manager’s
Journey, Ready to Lead, GAP – M, LEAD programs cater to
leadership development at various levels of the organisation.
Committed to increasing the diversity in the workforce, the
Company has also introduced training programs designed
to nurture the pipeline of women leaders from within the
organisation. ExcelHer is a program that nurtures and
empowers women leaders, providing them with tailored
support and development opportunities to thrive in their
careers at mid-level. In addition, Female Talent Development
Program (FTDP) is another leadership program aimed at senior
level women leaders.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

At Hitachi Energy India Limited, continuous development is
fostered through networking and exposure to leaders and
stakeholders at all levels. This is achieved through talent
connect programs, coaching, mentoring and also fireside
chats with leaders. Please also refer to Material developments
in human resources / industrial relations section of MD&A and
Principle 3 of BRSR forming a part of this Integrated Annual
Report 2023-24.

Total employee base:
S.
No.

1
2
4
5

Particulars

Employees
Permanent
Other than Permanent
Workers
Permanent
Other than Permanent
Permanent (1+4)

Male

Female

Total

1,625
53

185
11

1,810
64

562
491
2,187

3
41
188

565
3,532
2,375

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

55

Social and
relationship capital
Hitachi Energy India Limited is
committed to being a responsible
corporate citizen and invests in
sustainable and inclusive development of
the community’s social capital.

The Company follows a sustainable model for community
and societal development. The approach incorporates
certain principles that are woven into the corporate social
responsibility (CSR) programs. These include:
.

Innovation for multiplier impact to communities/society

.

Role model for others to replicate and expand benefits

.

Giving support towards sustaining and maintaining, not just
one-time funding

.

Employee involvement (volunteering)

To determine where the Company’s resources are dedicated,
social surveys are organised through NGO partners.
Accordingly, your Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR) efforts are dedicated to:
.

Promote gender equality and empower women in the core
engineering workforce

.

Endorse education, employability, and healthcare

.

Social impact projects to collaborate with communities
to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access
to electricity in the country, especially in rural areas for
its development

.

56

Aid in sustainable development goals

Education
Your Company is supporting over 200 girl students hailing
from Tier II & III cities across the country, pursuing engineering
courses in BE/ B. Tech for four years. Students from families
facing economic hardship but with high aptitude are covered
in the program, where they receive a yearly scholarship along
with tools like laptops and several trainings spread over four
years on soft skill development, technical and employable
skills, mentoring for career goals, offsite training, factory
visits, internship and employment opportunities to eligible
candidates. Women employees from the Company are actively
involved in mentoring and conducting training for the students.
Hitachi Energy India Limited has also introduced another
program for 500 girl students who are from economically
backward families in Tier II & III cities pursuing STEM courses
in 11th Grade. The program covers the girl student’s education
career, starting from pre-university up to the completion of
Undergraduate courses.
The students receive a yearly scholarship, along with oneon-one mentoring, trainings in soft skill development, career
planning and technical skills.

Integrated Report

Corporate Overview

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

The Company has also provided digital teaching facilities at
five Government schools in Gujarat, under the government’s
‘Sarva Siksha Abhiyan’ initiative. It has converted two
classrooms in each of the five government schools in the
villages of Gujarat for digital teaching by providing large
screen monitors with interactive CPU and also refurbished
the classrooms. The organisation is also providing drinking
water and has upgraded the campus and other facilities at the
Government School in Maneja, Vadodara. The Company has
also developed 10 ‘Smart Classes’ at five Government schools
in Vadodara with digital teaching and upgraded classrooms.

Healthcare
Your Company has contributed to addressing different facets
of healthcare across locations in the country. These include:
.

Deployed 50 mobile deep freezer deceives for vaccine/
immunisation at Tamil Nadu & Karnataka Govt PHCs

.

Funding emergency medical/ surgical requirements for
underprivileged children across the country

.

Developed and maintained Hematology lab at Govt
Hospital at Vadodara

.

Two ambulances with critical care equipment at Vadodara

.

Maintaining fully equipped pediatric ICU facilities at Halol
and Mysuru

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

57

Environment and urban afforestation
In recognition of its responsibility towards the environment,
your Company has undertaken key initiatives during the year.
These include:
.

Urban forest developed and being maintained with 6,000
trees over 10,000 square feet area in Vadodara

.

Green cover through planting at traffic circle at Vadodara,
including ongoing maintenance

.

Carbon neutral schools – the Company has installed
8kW of solar power at government schools including
maintenance for three years

.

Sustainability- provided drinking water and refurbished
washrooms and campus at government schools

.

Green cover - developed two kms of road and metro
median at Whitefield, Bengaluru and has commenced
development of green cover of 1 km along National
Highway road median opposite Brigade Opus.

.

Sustainable energy – installation of solar power at three
government public healthcare centres at Tamil Nadu (where
mobile Deep freeze deceives are deployed)

.

Smart traffic signals for traffic management and pedestrian
safety at Kodigehalli junction, opposite Brigade Opus

Community support
The Company is actively supporting communities in the
locations that it has operations. Among the initiatives are:
.

Support for design and development of lab infrastructure
for research scholars

.

Industry training for academics

.

An innovation hackathon was conducted at Government
Universities at Chennai, Warangal, Roorkee, Kharagpur and
Anand.

.

Development of village road in Mysuru

Smart infrastructure
Your Company is supporting educational institutions such
as NIT Warangal, IIT Roorkee, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Madras and
other top-tier universities by developing smart and digital
laboratories under various areas of electrical engineering
applications to support Masters and Research Scholars. It is
conducting hackathons at Government Universities to promote
sustainable energy for all, felicitating winners with cash
rewards and sponsoring winning projects. Your Company is
sponsoring interactive industry-academia programs by inviting
students to Hitachi Energy India Limited’s factories/ business
locations for technical trainings. It has provided e-carts at
several Universities for convenient in-campus commute of
students and faculty members, thereby reducing the use of
personal vehicles and CO2 emissions.

58

Innovation platforms for academic
institutions, diversity
Hitachi Energy India Limited has invested in partnerships with
academia that encourage innovation, research and diversity in
STEM. The company’s programs span across India and include:
.

Live lab for awareness, education, research & innovation

.

Real-life systems/ operations in campus

.

Innovation platform for students, researchers, faculties &
industries

.

Ideation through hackathon, internship, joint projects

.

Industry expert lectures, faculty industrial visits

.

Holistic structure for encouraging/supporting Women in
Engineering - Education to career development
− With NIT Warangal, the Company has developed a ‘Smart
Grid Lab’ and continues to support and maintain it. This
includes funding of four PhD scholars for continuous
upgradation of lab and to mentor other students. An
INNOTHON event was conducted with cash rewards to
winners, and two e-carts were provided to reduce CO2
emission at the campus.
− At IIT Roorkee, the Company developed the ‘Collaborative
Monitoring & Analytics Center’. The lab is designed to
monitor, simulate, analyze and control data from
locations of substations in the campus. It is also funding
two PhD scholars for continuous upgrade of lab and to
mentor other students and has provided two e-carts to
reduce CO2 emission at the campus. A hackathon was
conducted with cash rewards.
− At IIT Kharagpur, the Company is developing a ‘New
Energy Control & Protection Lab’ and is augmenting the
relay lab with a modified layout.
− At IIT Madras, the Company has invested in ‘Smart
e-mobility’ for the development of charging infrastructure.
− At BVM College of Engineering, Anand, the Company has
invested in ‘Asset Modelling & Diagnostics Lab’ for the
development of lab and use cases.

Integrated Report

Corporate Overview

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Smart & Sustainable Community/Campus
- IIT Roorkee

Women-in-Engineering (WiE)
Assam
WiE, STEM
Delhi
Haryana

Asset Modelling &
Diagnostics Lab
- BVM CE, Vallabh Vidyanagar

WiE, STEM
Gujarat
New Energy Labs
Interation, Control & Protection
- IIT Kharagpur

STEM
Maharashtra

Smart Electric Grid
STEM , Higher Eduction & Lab - NITW
Telangana
STEM
Andhra Pradesh
Smart eMobility
(eBus Charging Infra)
- IIT Madras

WiE, STEM
Karnataka

WiE, STEM
Tamil Nadu

STEM
Kerala

Source: Surveyofindia
https://surveyofindia.gov.in/webroot/UserFiles/files/1_16%282%29.pdf

Customer engagement
Hitachi Energy India Limited’s key customers are utilities,
industries, renewable generators, conventional generators,
data centers and transportation customers like railways and
metro.
The Company’s flagship series of customer events is held
each year under the banner of ‘Energy and Digital World’
workshops organised across the country to brief them on the
new products and services that Hitachi Energy India Ltd. has
to offer. Such events also reaffirm confidence in the customers
to rely on Hitachi Energy on the existing products that they
have and include the prospect of installing our products at
their base when they tend to expand.
Customer engagement is also high through direct interaction
by the Company’s sales and marketing team that maintains

Map not to scale and for representation purpose only

close relationships with the customers and their organisation.
As a company that believes in maximising customer relations,
the sales team is responsible to enhance the customer
experience by appraising them on the various expansion
possibilities in case of introduction if new policies that aids
project from the government, multilateral agencies, etc.
The marketing and sales team also does a detailed market
study on the customer trends and individual customer career
movements, in order to keep connected and prepared. Such
exercises like studying utility moves and informing about
policies drafted to support them, budgets and expansion
plan of railway and metro, informing new data centers about
the available products from Hitachi Energy India Limited and
moving to renewable customers with our advanced products,
tend to increase customer confidence and strengthen their
trust on the company, helping it to expand business.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

59

Supplier engagement
The Supplier Sustainability Development Program (SSDP) is a
supplier engagement program that enforces the Company’s
commitment to work only with those suppliers that uphold
human rights and decent working conditions, ensure safe and
environmentally sound operations and comply with relevant
regulatory requirements in supply chain. Additionally, suppliers
experience operational benefits like improved on-time delivery,
reduced machine breakdown, increased productivity and
overall reduction in cost of manufacturing, thus becoming
more efficient and effective.
In the year 2023-24, as a part of supplier sustainability
development program, the Company assessed 14 suppliers
within India. Further during the year, the Company has been
able to reduce the risk level of previous years’ 14 suppliers
to Low Risk. In addition, one supplier was de sourced due
to non-compliance of the Hitachi Energy Supplier code of
conduct.

Company attracts and retains top talent to add customer
value and drive growth. Your Company conducts annual
employee engagement surveys and value-based performance
management to ensure a safe, inclusive and conducive
working environment for every employee.
Besides the fundamental focus on health and safety, the
Company is also advancing diversity, equity and inclusion
(DEI) for a sustainable tomorrow. The sustainable energy
future rests on its employees, and Hitachi Energy India Limited
prioritises the safety, wellness, and career growth of its people
as a prized asset, to develop innovative technologies and
serve customers.

Government
Your Company's overarching vision is firmly inline with the
Government's vision for India's net zero journey and it works
in close conjunction with key public sector units to drive the
energy transition narrative in the country.

Employee engagement

Industry

At Hitachi Energy India Limited, people form the heart of the
operations, and have been the solid core for the past seven
decades. As a company that is leading the energy transition,
with technologies that re-shape the power industry and its
impact on every other industry, the Company remains an
employer of choice. Committed to delivering meaningful
employee experiences and empowering the workforce, the

Your Company continues exploring greater synergies and
collaborative partnerships with industry and technology
implementation partners. To innovate and co-create nextgeneration eco-efficient solutions that will address future
challenges and accelerate the power system ramp-up in
the transition towards a carbon-neutral energy system.
Furthermore, Hitachi Energy India Limited participates
in various prestigious forums to foster engagement and
collaborative avenues.

Media
Hitachi Energy India Limited constantly engage with external
media by sharing all relevant information through various
medium like press releases, event notes or direct meetings
with spokespeople. Your Company ensures that the media
is been updated on all new developments of the Company in
India as well globally.

Community
Hitachi Energy India Limited is committed to being a
responsible corporate citizen and invests in sustainable and
inclusive development of the community’s social capital
through its multiple initiatives.

60

Integrated Report

Corporate Overview

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Intellectual capital
Your Company’s legacy of innovation and
deep expertise in the power technology
sector have enabled it to continually provide
enhanced value to customers, foresee industry
trajectory, anticipate the next phase of growth
and stay ahead of the curve.

Your Company’s Research and Development (R&D) activities
are conducted globally in R&D and technology centers
and are locally embedded in businesses. This approach
leverages local competence to create social, environmental,
and economic value on a global scale. By developing
new and localised products, features, and solutions, your

Company can secure existing revenue streams while creating
additional revenue by increasing customer engagement and
installed bases.
Additional details covering the technology absorption of R&D
is disclosed in Annexure-G to the Board’s Report, forming part
of this Integrated Annual Report 2023-24.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

61

Natural capital
Sustainability is foundational element of Hitachi
Energy India Limited’s business strategy,
shaping the approach that your Company
takes towards products and operations. In line
with its long-term commitment to corporate
responsibility, the Company considers its role
within society and environment as a leader in
and enabler of the energy transition globally.
Thus, the governance is in support of a just
energy transition and vital to your Company’s
purpose of advancing a sustainable energy
future for all.

Sustainability 2030 is Hitachi Energy’s global strategic plan
for sustainability, summarising key global commitments to
act and drive business in a sustainable way. Hitachi Energy
is working to become carbon neutral across its operating
sites by 2030, and throughout its value chain by 2050.
The Sustainability 2030 plan summarises Hitachi Energy’s
commitment to act and drive business based on four pillars:
Planet, People, Peace, and Partnerships. Each of these areas
has corresponding targets, which are closely aligned to the
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adding social,
environmental and economic value. Its strategy draws from
the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Each pillar has
corresponding targets that drive its business to contribute
social, environmental, and economic value.
Hitachi Energy India Limited has been steadily progressing
towards achieving the Sustainability 2030 targets in its
operations.

62

Emissions
Globally Hitachi Energy has reached the first-step in its target
to use 100% fossil-free electricity in its own operations by
2022. Continuing this effort in India, Hitachi Energy India
Limited has several projects and initiatives including:
.

Solar roof top installations at Maneja in Vadodara and
Doddaballapur near Bengaluru. At Maneja, 932 kW
is installed, of which 292 kW is operational and at
Doddaballapur where 600 kW of solar is installed. The
installed capacity can meet 20-30% of the total electricity
requirement in each of the facilities.

.

Hitachi Energy India Limited’s Mysuru facility has entered
into Power Purchase Agreements which cater to nearly
90% of its electricity requirement with renewable electricity.
The remaining carbon from grid electricity is offset by
purchasing International Renewable Energy Certificates
(I-REC). Going forward the Mysuru facility intends to move
away from purchasing I-REC towards direct methods such
as green tariffs, Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) and
owned renewable generation.

Integrated Report

Corporate Overview

.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

The Company’s project sites have also taken initiatives to
make their operations clean using solar power. Solar roof
top installations are used to power offices at Mumbai Infeed
HVDC project and 6 GPQS sites, totalling 47.7 kW capacity.
Six sets of solar-based mobile charging equipment, with
three lights and two USBs are installed in rest sheds and at
the worker colony. Further, seven CNG vehicles are used
for site transportation instead of petrol or diesel vehicles.

Energy
Your Company achieved 37% reduction in energy
consumption per Crores revenue since the baseline year
of 2019. This was achieved through various energy saving
measures across our 8 manufacturing sites.

Mysuru

.

.

Replacement of 60 numbers of metal halide lamps with
light-emitting diodes (LED) lights saves three units/ hour on
low tension side.

.

Five numbers of star delta starters were replaced with
available spare drives. This has saved 25kwh (units) per
hour on the low tension side.

.

Faulty capacitors have been replaced with new capacitors
with capacity 200KVAR in low tension side (Power factor
increased from 0.94 to 0.96)

Savli
.

In the dry & traction transformer factory at Savli, a new
dedicated 5.5 kW compressor was installed for the casting
plant which has reduced the operation of 30 kW centralised
compressor system. This has minimised power losses
occurred due to the running of higher rated centralised
compressor and projected yearly energy saving of 35,868
kWh.

Maneja
.

.

The operation of Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
(HVAC) system at the canteen has been optimised. The
operation of HVAC was automated by installing a Bluetoothbased time switch, motorised molded case circuit breaker
(MCCB) and by modifying the wiring in the canteen. These
optimisations resulted in energy savings by minimising the
operation of HVAC in non-peak hours, with an estimated
saving of 96,000 kWh per annum.
Vapour Phased Drying (VPD1) chiller was replaced with a
new higher capacity chiller. For another Vapour Phased
Drying chiller, (VPD2) the cooling tower was replaced with a
chiller unit; also HVLS (High Volume Low speed) installation
was done in the winding area for improvement in humidity
and comfort levels.

At Maneja, an energy monitoring system has been installed
to monitor electricity consumption patterns. Seven HT/LT
substations and 53 energy meters are connected to the
smart energy monitoring system. This facilitates real time
data on energy consumption patterns, allowing actions
to be taken to reduce energy consumption per unit of
production.

Halol
Installed nine numbers of solar street lights on the Halol factory
roof which has resulted in saving of energy. Power savings
were also achieved in the lighting by installing motion sensors
in the washrooms and meeting rooms.
Stopped fresh air circulation of air in ovens by turning off
burners to reduce fresh air consumption and provided thermal
insulation to the hot lines of the oven which has resulted in
saving in energy as well as reduced Piped Natural Gas (PNG)
consumption.
Stopped the operation of spray nozzle pumps of Air Handling
Units during the monsoon and winter, which has resulted in
energy savings.

Water
Your Company has reduced 18% of absolute water
consumption and 49% water consumption per Crores revenue
relative to the baseline year of 2019.
Initiatives on water conservation and rainwater harvesting
include:
.

Installation of three rainwater recharge wells at Halol

.

Leakage management at Maneja, Savli and Mysuru

.

Reuse of RO reject water at Maneja

.

Installation of 23 digital water meters at Maneja

.

Installation of two digital water meters at Mysuru

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

63

Water withdrawn from surface water was 2,04,179 kL, from
groundwater 1,32,012 kL and from third party 32,365 kL. Total
volume of water consumed was 3,68,556 kL for the year.
1,46,255 kL water discharged after treatment in own sewage
treatment plant of which 1,19,260 kL is utilised in-house to
irrigate the garden and flush toilets.

Waste
The Company has taken adequate measures to reduce waste
and recycle generated waste. Approximately 7,825.8 MT of
waste generated of which 97% was recycled through waste
handlers authorised by local pollution control board. A 40%
reduction in waste per Crores revenue was achieved this year
against the baseline year of 2019.

Biodiversity
Your Company does not have any manufacturing locations or
offices in and around ecologically sensitive regions. However,
the Company has carried out urban afforestation projects,
taken up initiatives with local authorities to provide green cover
in urban spaces, and has planted 2,450 saplings till close
of FY24.

64

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Business Responsibility &
Sustainability Report
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.

II.

Details of the listed entity
Particulars

Response

1

Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity

L31904KA2019PLC121597

2.

Name of the Listed Entity

Hitachi Energy India Limited (“the Company”)

3.

Year of incorporation

2019 (February 19, 2019)

4.

Registered office address

8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560 092

5.

Corporate address

8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560 092

6.

E-mail

investors@hitachienergy.com
(For investors)
poovanna.ammatanda@hitachienergy.com
(e-mail ID of Compliance Officer and Nodal Officer)
080-68473700

7.

Telephone

8.

Website

https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en

9.

Financial year for which reporting is being done

FY 2023-24
(April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024)

10.

Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed

BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited
(NSE)

11.

Paid-up Capital

H 8,47,63,350/- divided into 4,23,81,675 Equity shares of H 2/- each

12.

Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person Binupriya A R
who may be contacted in case of any queries on the BRSR report (Telephone: 080-68473719)
E-mail: binupriya.a-r@hitachienergy.com

13.

Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made
on a standalone basis (i.e., only for the entity) or on a consolidated
basis (i.e., for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its
consolidated financial statements, taken together).

Standalone basis

14.

Name of assurance provider

NA

15.

Type of assurance obtained

NA

Products/services
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
Sr.
No.

Description of Main Activity

Description of Business Activity

% of Turnover of
the entity

1

Sale of products

Design, manufacturing/configuration & supply of system, equipment, devices
and accessories products

69.58

2

Execution of contracts for
projects and services

Project and service engineering, installation, commissioning and support

25.19

17. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
Sr.
No.

Product/Service

NIC Code

% of total Turnover
contributed

1

Manufacture of electric motors, generators, transformers and electricity distribution and
control apparatus

271

69.58

2

Projects and services of related manufactured electrical equipment.

279

25.19

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

65

III. Operations
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location

Number of plants

Number of offices

Total

National

81

122

19

0

33

3

International

		1 8 Plants with factory licenses containing 19 unique manufacturing lines.
		2 12 Sales offices
		3 International sales offices: Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka

19. Markets served by the entity:
		

		

a)

b)

Number of locations
Locations

Number

National (No. of States)

All states & Union Territories

International (No. of Countries)

70+ countries

What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?

			24.50
		

c)

A brief on types of customers

			The Company serves a wide range of customers – Public & Private Power & Energy Utilities, Industries, Transportation,
and Infrastructure companies. These include EPCs (Engineering, Procurement & Construction) & OEMs (Original
Equipment Manufacturer) operating in the above segments.

IV. Employees
20. Details as at the end of the Financial Year:
		

a)

Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sr.
No.

Particulars

Male

Female

Total
(A)

No. (B)

% (B/A)

No. (C)

% (C/A)

EMPLOYEES
1

Permanent (D)

1810

1625

90

185

10

2

Other than Permanent (E)

64

53

83

11

17

Total employees (D + E)

1874

1678

90

196

10

3

WORKERS

		

b)

4

Permanent (F)

565

562

99

3

1

5

Other than Permanent (G)

532

491

92

41

8

6

Total employees (F + G)

1097

1053

96

44

4

Total
(A)

No. (B)

% (B/A)

No. (C)

% (C/A)

Differently abled Employees and workers:
Sr.
No.

Particulars

Male

Female

DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1

Permanent (D)

0

0

0

0

0

2

Other than Permanent (E)

0

0

0

0

0

3

Total employees (D + E)

0

0

0

0

0

DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS

66

4

Permanent (F)

9

8

89

1

11

5

Other than Permanent (G)

6

6

100

0

0

6

Total employees (F + G)

15

14

93

1

7

Corporate Overview

Statutory Reports

Integrated Report

Financial Statements

21. Participation/ Inclusion/ Representation of women
No. and percentage of Females

Total
(A)

Particulars

No. (B)

% (B/A)

Board of Directors

6

2

33.33

Key Management Personnel

3

0

0

22. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
		
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
Turnover rate in the current FY
FY 2023-24
April 2023 and March 2024

Particulars

V.

FY 2022-23
April 2022 and March 2023

FP 2021-22
January 2021 and March 2022

Male

Female

Total

Male

Female

Total

Male

Female

Total

Permanent Employees

10.37%

19.64%

11.24%

11.2%

21.02%

12.0%

9.1%

13.8%

9.4%

Permanent Workers

1.79%

28.57%

1.96%

0.2%

0.0%

0.2%

4.1%

20.0%

4.2%

Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
23. (a)

Names of holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures
Sr.
No.

Name of the holding/ subsidiary/
associate companies/ joint ventures (A)

1.

Hitachi Energy Ltd. (formerly known as
Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd.)

Indicate whether
holding/ Subsidiary/
Associate/ Joint
Venture

% of shares held by
the listed entity

Does the entity indicated at column
A, participate in the Business
Responsibility initiatives of the
listed entity? (Yes/No)

Holding

75

No

VI. CSR Details
24. (i)

Whether CSR is applicable as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No) - Yes

		(ii)

Turnover (in H): 5,237.49 Crores (As on March 31, 2024)

		

Net worth (in H): 1,359.87 Crores (As on March 31, 2024)

(iii)

VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25.	Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible
Business Conduct:

Stakeholder
group from whom
the complaint is
received

Grievance Redressal
Mechanism in Place (Yes/No)
(If Yes, then provide web-link
for the grievance redress
policy)

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year
Number of
complaints
filed during
the year.

Number of
complaints
pending
resolution at
the close of
the year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Remarks

Number of
complaints
filed during
the year

Number of
complaints
pending
resolution at
the close of
the year

Remarks

Communities

Yes
https://www.hitachienergy.
com/in/en/contact-us

0

0

Nil

0

0

Nil

Investors (other
than shareholder)

https://www.hitachienergy.
com/in/en/investorrelations#quick-links

0

0

Nil

0

0

Nil

Shareholder

https://scores.gov.in/scores/
Welcome.html

13

0

Nil

3

0

Nil

Employees and
workers

https://secure.ethicspoint.
eu/domain/media/en/
gui/109107/report.html

11

0

Nil

6

0

Nil

Customers

https://www.hitachienergy.
com/in/en/contact-us

620

47

Nil

523

83

Nil

Value Chain
Partners

https://www.hitachienergy.
com/in/en/contact-us

0

0

Nil

0

0

Nil

Other (Media,
General enquiries,
sales)

https://www.hitachienergy.
com/in/en/contact-us

0

0

Nil

0

0

Nil

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

67

26. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
		Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or
mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format.
Indicate
whether risk
or opportunity
(R / O)

Sr.
No.

Material issue
identified

1

Safe, healthy, and Risk
secure operations

Financial
implications of the
risk or opportunity
(Indicate positive
or negative
implications)

Rationale for identifying the
risk/opportunity

In case of risk, approach to
adapt or mitigate

Health and Safety is our license
to operate. Our employees work
at manufacturing sites as well
as project sites where they are
exposed to various hazards.
Therefore, it is pertinent to
identify risks through a robust
risk assessment process and
implement effective controls to
mitigate our risks.

Negative
Safety is vital to our ‘license to
operate’ and being a business that
people want to work for or with.
We minimize risk of harm and are
committed to eradicating fatalities and
life-changing injuries
We foster:
- Positive health and well-being work
environments
- Safe working conditions as well as
continual improvement
- Environmental protection to minimize
our impact
- Learnings from successes and
failures
- Trust by open reporting and through
external validation

Opportunity /
Risk

Climate change
and carbon
neutrality

3

Resource efficiency Opportunity
and circular
economy

Opportunity to identify resource NA
conservation and waste
minimization through efficient
processes, adoption of new
technologies, reuse of packaging
materials, and recycling wastes
thereby promoting circular
economy.

Positive

4

Sustainable
Opportunity
products, services,
and solutions

Opportunity to identify
sustainable raw materials for
productions; improve energy
efficiency for our clients through
our products and solutions

Positive

5

Responsible
Sourcing

Managing sourcing of materials Integrating sustainable practices in to Negative
across the supply chain and
supply chain procedures.
comply with regulatory and
Follow the OECD (Organization
customer requirements regarding for Economic Cooperation and
the prohibition and restriction of Development) due diligence guidance
substances, including hazardous and be involved in relevant trade
substances and responsible
associations to define and improve
sourcing of conflict minerals.
best practices and encourage

Risk

Climate risk is an opportunity
to transition to low carbon
technologies and alternate fuels
as well as augment our energy
conservation efforts. Climate
change is a risk for business
continuity due to physical
risks such as extreme weather
conditions impacting business
operations, value chain and
community.

Positive
Risks are addressed through the
Company’s Sustainability 2030
strategy advancing in four key areas:
Planet, People, Peace, Partnerships
each having corresponding targets,
which are closely aligned to the UN
Sustainable Development Goals,
adding social, environmental and
economic value.

2

NA

responsible sourcing.

68

Corporate Overview

Sr.
No.

Material issue
identified

6

Well-being of
employees

Indicate
whether risk
or opportunity
(R / O)

Opportunity

Integrated Report

Rationale for identifying the
risk/opportunity

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

In case of risk, approach to
adapt or mitigate

Good personal health and
NA
well‑being also require everyone
to do what they can to look after
themselves and others.

Financial
implications of the
risk or opportunity
(Indicate positive
or negative
implications)

Positive

Health is an opportunity to
motivate behavior change and
increase engagement with better
health practices; increase our
support for mental well-being
and provide safe workplaces and
working conditions for all our
employees
7

Diversity

Opportunity

NA
The Company believes in
integrating diversity and inclusion
into all our practices and policies
and foster female acceleration
through our Female Talent
Development Program.

Positive

The Company’s sustainability
2030 targets include increasing
female diversity from 5.8% in
2019 to 16-20% by 2030.
8

Human rights and Risk
labor conditions

Identification, evaluation and
managing Human Rights risks
in its operation and supply chain
and its consequences.

Human Rights policy and control
standard is in place to evaluate
Human Rights risks at all levels of
operations.

Negative

Supplier Sustainability Development
Program (SSDP) is a supplier
engagement initiative, to uphold
human rights and decent working
conditions.
9

Integrity and
anti-corruption

Risk

The Company behaves in an
The Company has a very stringent
Negative
ethical, legal, and responsible
policy on integrity that applies to all.
way. Lack of adherence can have The Company’s Code of Conduct
consequences i.e., reputational provides a framework for employees
damage with the top line adverse and stakeholders to put business
effect; unattractive employer for principles into practice with utmost
top talent; regulatory fines and
integrity. The Company regularly
penalties etc.
evaluates culture of integrity, and
non‑compliance is strictly acted upon.

10

Developing our
people

Opportunity

Cultivating life-long learning
and creating inclusive learning
opportunities, The Company
fosters innovation.

NA

Positive

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

69

SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
P1

Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable

P2

Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe

P3

Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains

P4

Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders

P5

Businesses should respect and promote human rights

P6

Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment

P7

Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent

P8

Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development

P9

Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner

Disclosure Questions

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

Policy and management processes
1. a)	Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle
and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)

Yes

b) Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)

Yes

c)

Please refer to the section on ‘Links to the Company Policies and Programs’ at
the end of this Report.

Web-Link of the Policies, if available

2.	Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures.
(Yes/No)

Yes

3.	Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners?
(Yes/No)

Yes

The following management systems have been implemented.
4.	Name of the national and international codes/ certifications/
labels/ standards (e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, ISO 9001: 2015 Quality Management System
Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS,
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each principle. ISO 14001: 2015 Environment Management System
ISO 45001: 2018 Occupational Health & Safety Management System.
ISO 37001: 2016 Anti-Bribery Management System
5.	Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with The Company in alignment with its global Sustainability 2030 strategic business
defined timelines, if any.
plan has taken the following goals against 2019 baseline.
-

50% CO2 emissions reduction along the value chain

-

50% reduction in waste disposed.

-

25% reduction in freshwater use

-

25% reduction in hazardous substances and chemicals

-

Zero harm

-

Top quartile health absence rates

-

Life-long learning culture

-

Increase female diversity from 5.8% to 16-18% by 2030.

-

Zero incidents of corruption and bribery

-

Increase involvement in multi-stakeholder partnerships

6.	Performance of the entity against the specific commitments,
The Company’s global goals and targets are cascaded to business units who
goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same are not work on achieving the targets. Performance is monitored at the Company level
met
and support extended to local teams where required. The Company is steadily
progressing towards achieving its 2030 target.
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility We are serious in our commitment to drive our business in a sustainable way. We
report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and
have been consistent in our efforts to decarbonize our operations and in ensuring
achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the
welfare of our stakeholders. We have made considerable progress towards
placement of this disclosure)
achieving our Sustainability 2030 goals in all areas.
8.	Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation
and oversight of the Business Responsibility policy(ies).

70

Nuguri Venu, Managing Director & CEO

Corporate Overview

Statutory Reports

Integrated Report

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

Financial Statements

Disclosure Questions

P1

9.	Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/
Director responsible for decision-making on sustainability
related issues? (Yes/No). If yes, provide details.

Yes, Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Committee (constituted
w.e.f. October 22, 2021)

P7

P8

P9

Composition of Committee:
Ms. Meena Ganesh* (DIN: 00528252)
Chairperson of Committee - Independent Director (Non-Executive Director)
Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (DIN: 06629992)
Member of Committee - Independent Director (Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN: 08596097)
Member of the Committee - Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the
Company
Mr. Nuguri Venu (DIN: 07032076)
Member of Committee - Executive Director (Managing Director and CEO)

* Ms. Meena Ganesh (DIN: 00528252) was appointed as Independent Director and Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) resigned from the position
of Independent Director of the Company effective from May 24, 2023. Pursuant to this, the Committee has been reconstituted by inducting
Ms. Meena Ganesh as Chairperson of the Committee in place of Ms. Nishi Vasudeva.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for review

Frequency
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any other - please
specify)

Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director/
Committee of the Board/ Any other Committee
P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

Performance against the
above policies and follow up
action

Yes

Annually and/or on a need basis

Compliance with statutory
requirements of relevance
to the principles, and
rectification of any noncompliances

Yes

Quarterly and/or on a need basis

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

11.	Has the entity carried out independent Assessment/evaluation
of the working of its policies by an external agency? Yes/No. If
yes, provide name of agency.

No

12.	If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are
covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:

Not Applicable

P6

P7

P8

P9

P9

Questions

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

The entity does not consider the Principles material to its business
(Yes/No)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and
implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical
resources available for the task (Yes/No)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Any other reason (please specify)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are
expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by
entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and ethically responsible.

PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is
Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Integrity, transparency, and accountability
The Company’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct consists of rules and principles to assist leaders and employees in making
decisions and acting ethically and in line with the Company’s Identity. The Company has developed and implemented a systematic
approach designed to prevent, detect and resolve any potential integrity concerns. This is supported by tools and processes and a
zero-tolerance policy for any violations.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

71

Essential indicators
1.

Percentage coverage by training and awareness programs on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of training
Topics/principles covered under the
and awareness programs
training and its impact
held

Segment

%age of persons in respective
category covered by the
awareness programs

Board of Directors

2

Ethics and Code of Conduct
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption
Antitrust and Competition Law

100

Key Managerial Personnel

4

Ethics and Code of Conduct
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption
Antitrust and Competition Law

100

Employees other than BOD and KMP

29*

Ethics and Code of Conduct
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption
Antitrust and Competition Law

100

Workers

32

Ethics and Code of Conduct
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption
Antitrust and Competition Law

100

* Conducted as part of induction to new employees and yearly once through e-learning platform for management staff; trainings are available
in 2 levels – basic and advanced.

2.	Details of fines/ penalties/ punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by
the entity or by directors/ KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial
year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in
Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the
entity’s website):
Monetary
Particulars

NGRBC Principle

Penalty/Fine

P1

Name of the regulatory/
enforcement agencies/
judicial institutions

Amount in K

Brief of the case

5,000

Non-implementation
of
technical
measures such as safety audit and
biennial risk assessment for check‑up
in order to achieve reduction of
accident pursuant to Rule 12(c)(4)(e) of
the Gujarat Factory Rules, 1963

Hon’ble Judge Labor
Court and JMFC
Godhra, Gujarat

Has an appeal
been preferred?
Yes/No

No

Settlement

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

Compounding

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

Non-Monetary
Imprisonment

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

Punishment

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

3.	Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/Revision preferred in cases where monetary
or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case details

Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions

NA

NA

4.	Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide
a web-link to the policy.
	The Company’s Anti-corruption policy is stated explicitly in its Corporate Regulation PGR-LI-02 on anti-bribery and anti‑corruption
and emphasizes key components which are essential to ensuring a strict compliance to anti-bribery laws but also refraining
from corruption because it’s the right thing to do.
https://www.hitachienergy.com/about-us/integrity/commitment
The Company is certified for ISO:37001:2016 for Anti-bribery management systems.

72

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

5.	Number of Directors/ KMPs/ employees/ workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Directors

NIL

NIL

KMPs

NIL

NIL

Employees

NIL

NIL

Workers

NIL

NIL

Particulars

6.

Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

Particulars

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Number

Remarks

Number

Remarks

Number of complaints received in relation to issue of conflict
of Interest of the Directors

Nil

Nil

Nil

Nil

Number of complaints received in relation to issue of conflict
of Interest of the KMPs

Nil

Nil

Nil

Nil

7.	Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/ penalties/ action taken by
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
Not applicable
8.	Number of Days of Accounts payables (Accounts payable *365)/ Cost of goods/ services procured) in the
following format:
Particulars

Number of days of accounts payables

9.

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

135

145

Openness of business

	Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans and
advances & investments, with related parties in the following format:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

a)	Purchases from trading houses
as % of total purchases

4%

-

b)	Number of trading houses where
purchases are made from

3

-

c)	Purchases from top 10 trading
houses as % of total Purchases
from trading houses

4%

-

a)	Sales to dealers/ distributors as
% of total sales

6.5%

5.6%

b)	Number of Dealers/distributors to
whom sales are made

94

89

c)	Sales to top 10 dealers/
distributors as % of total sales to
dealers/distributors

<35%

<48%

a)	Sales to top 10 dealers/
distributors as % of total sales to
dealers/ distributors

-

-

23.6%

23.7%

Nil

Nil

Parameter

Metrics

Concentration of
Purchases

Concentration of
Sales

Share of RPTs in

b)	Sales (Sales to related parties/
Total Sales)
c)	Loans & advances (Loans &
Advances given to related parties/
Total loans & advances)

* Some data from previous year not included as information has been sourced and calculated from the current financial year only.

Leadership Indicators
1.

Awareness programs conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

73

	The Supplier Sustainability Development Program (SSDP) is supplier engagement to uphold human rights and decent working
conditions, ensure safe and environmentally sound operations and comply with relevant regulatory requirements in supply chain.
Sustainable and compliant suppliers reduce risk of disruption and negative brand impact. Additionally, suppliers experience
operational benefits like improved on-time delivery, reduced machine breakdown, increased productivity, and overall reduction
in cost of manufacturing, thus becoming more efficient and effective”. In the year 2023-24, as a part of supplier sustainability
development program, the Company assessed 14 suppliers. Further during the year, the Company has been able to reduce
the risk level of previous years’ 14 suppliers to Low Risk.
1 supplier de sourced due to non-compliance of the Company’s Supplier code of conduct.
	During current financial year 2023-24, The Company has trained and assessed 14 high risk supplier partners on SSDP.
Additionally, during this period, The Company has trained and developed 5 of its employees on SSDP, who have been certified
by Bureau Veritas as lead assessor and are able to conduct the supplier assessments independently.
Total number of awareness
programs held

Topics/principles covered under
the training

% age of value chain partners covered (by value of business
done with such partners) under the awareness programs

Nil

Nil

Nil

2.	Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board?
(Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
	Yes, the Company has in place a Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management and Company level Code of Conduct
and Related party transaction policy to report any conflict of interest beforehand. Further, conflict of interest can also be flagged
by any person through whistle-blower mechanism.
	The Integrity team handles any instance of conflict of interest reported related to any employee, Directors and Management and
outsiders, if required.

PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
Essential Indicators
1.	Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the
entity, respectively.
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024 April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year

R&D

Capex

NA

NA Considering the nature of research and development, complexity,
competency required, time frame, amount and also to optimize
overall cost, all major R&D efforts are pooled centrally at the Group
level. The expenditure has been mainly in the nature of payment of
license fee for use of technology know-how reported as royalty and
technology fees under other expenses. Certain development activities
carried out by the Company have been billed to the Group central
technology center. Local R&D activities undertaken by the Company
were mainly in localizing the products, adoption of global products
to local environment, carrying out cost saving actions and other
improvements. During the year under review, the Company has paid
H 90.50 Crores as royalty and technology fees to Hitachi Energy
Switzerland Ltd. (CHPGS) and H 99.65 Crores to Hitachi Energy Ltd.,
Switzerland (CHAMH). Further, during the financial year 2023-24,
CHPGS was merged with CHAMH.

H 1,35,63,252

H 65,00,000 Key energy and water conservation projects include Smart Energy
monitoring systems, HVAC system optimization, HVLS installation
and chiller replacement in Vadodara, electrical retrofit projects such
as replacement of old drives and motors at Mysuru, compressor
optimization at Savli; installation of 9 solar street lights at Halol and
transitioning to LED lighting from conventional lighting across locations
for energy saving.
Water saving projects include installation of 3 rainwater recharge wells
at Halol; leakage management at Maneja, Savli and Mysuru; reuse of
RO reject water at Maneja; installation of 23 digital water meters at
Maneja and 2 digital water meters at Mysuru

74

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

HSE aspects are incorporated into R&D through:
	
Eco Design: Eco Design, also referred to as Environmentally Conscious Design (ECD), aims to reduce a product’s environmental
impact, while maintaining or improving its functionality of the product. Integration of environmental aspects as early as possible
into the product design and development process offers flexibility to make changes and improvements to our products. This
enables us to make effective decisions about environmental aspects that we control.
	Safety in Design: Incorporating design solutions for identified hazards and reasonably foreseeable risks that may occur as
the product is manufactured, transported, installed, serviced and disposed of. The Company’s designers also consider the
behavior of design components in context of the product life span – for example, how often a component might fail during the
product life and the potential impacts of such failures. Consideration is also given to post-life aspects through the elimination
or minimization of exposure to toxic or environmentally damaging materials designed into the product.
	
HSE Checklist for the Company’s Gate Model: The HSE Checklist helps to identify key Health, Safety, Environmental
(HSE) and Sustainability aspects in the Company’s product and technology development projects. R&D systematically and
comprehensively identifies and assesses health, safety and environmental risks and opportunities.
 uideline for material selection: Environmental impact of a product is determined by the material and energy inputs
G
and outputs generated at all stages of its life cycle: raw-​material acquisition, manufacture, distribution, use and disposal.
Material selection guidance on for energy conservation, pollution prevention, resource conservation, promotion of a safe work
environment is provided to reduce impact of product on the environment.
	Every year projects focusing on environmental improvements are identified in our operations as part of their environment
management program and budget allocated.
1.

a)

Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)

		Yes
		Our dedicated team of supply chain specialists provides partners with a clear framework, tools, and feedback, including a
Supplier Code of Conduct, and a clearly defined pathway to becoming a partner, the Supply Base Management Process.
To mitigate significant sustainability risks, we also offer our partners and employees support, training, and evaluation via
our Supplier Sustainability Development Program. Furthermore, we combine this internal program with independently
verified assessments developed with leading provider, EcoVadis.
		Although the Company does not source raw minerals and ores directly, our Responsible Minerals Sourcing Program
offers regular training and communications for our suppliers and internal teams on compliance with our Conflict Minerals
Policy. These initiatives help us ensure that our suppliers can assess, maintain, and improve their performance, remaining
long‑term partners.
		These sustainability programs target and promote sustainable practices within our partners, such as CO2 reduction, human
rights, environmental performance, and diversity through the use of trainings, evaluations, and development programs.
		

These programs are as follows:
• The Supply Base Management Process enables us to understand the performance of suppliers across the entire supply
chain life cycle.
• The Supplier Sustainability Development Program (SSDP) targets suppliers with higher sustainability risks and offers
the program by prioritizing the partners according to a risk matrix.
• The Sustainability Assessment via EcoVadis evaluates suppliers across four areas: environmental, social, ethics, and
supply chain. This assessment was launched in 2021 as to augment the SSDP.
• The Responsible Minerals Sourcing Program identifies suppliers in the conflict minerals survey and offers regular
training and communications for our suppliers and internal teams to work toward ensuring compliance with our Conflict
Minerals Policy.

b)

If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?

		In transformer business, the major components include transformer oil, electric steel, copper, insulation material etc., which
comprises of 80% of the total input are sourced sustainably.
		In high voltage products, 100% products are sourced from the suppliers who are sustainable and follow sustainable
practices. Suppliers are onboarded only after getting qualified through the Supplier Sustainability Development Program
(SSDP). Subsequently, suppliers also undergo assessment from the Company.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

75

2.	Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end
of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	The Company recycles plastics from packaging and fulfills its extended producer responsibility requirement. The Company has
taken several initiatives for waste reduction and recycling. Steel, copper, aluminum, oil and plastics make up the majority of our
products. Most of these materials are reclaimable at the end of a product’s life and we also ‘design to recycle’. Product manual
specifically provides information on safe disposal as per local legislation.
3.	Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No). If yes, whether
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	Yes, as an importer, EPR is applicable under plastic packaging Category II. Waste collection plan is in line with the EPR plan
and is periodically submitted to Central pollution control board as per the regulatory requirement.

Leadership Indicators
1.	Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
	At the Company, life-cycle perspective means looking beyond our own operations to include our supply chain, the use of our
products, and their end of life.
	Lifecycle Assessments (LCAs) are key, providing us with quantitative environmental information to improve the environmental
performance of our products, systems, and services. We assess our main product groups’ LCA impacts and provide
comprehensive information to customers and regulators. We perform LCAs according to ISO 14040 and 14044 for different
purposes (such as guiding product innovation and R&D processes or delivering LCA studies and environmental product
declarations to customers on request.
	To address the complexity of our portfolio and the high customization of the systems we deliver, we perform LCAs for the base
solutions of systems such as High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC), Flexible Alternating Current Transmission Systems (FACTS),
grid connections, e-mobility solutions, and EconiQ products, among others. For our service solutions and project installations,
we are implementing tools that allow us and our customers to directly assess project-specific configurations from their earlystage development. Furthermore, we are further developing our internal capabilities and tools for establishing LCA assessments
in engineering, design and product development processes across all product lines and factories.

NIC Code

Name of Product/Service

27102

Transformer including
Distribution Transformer/
Power Transformer and
Traction Transformer

% of total
Turnover
contributed

90% of
transformer
business unit
(LCA models
available)

Boundary for which the
Life Cycle Perspective/
Assessment was
conducted

Whether conducted
Results communicated in public
by independent
domain (Yes/No). If yes, provide
external agency
the web-link.
(Yes/No)

From material extraction, Yes
processing to end-of-life
treatment

Yes
https://www.epditaly.it/en/epdsearch/

2.	If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of
your products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or through any other means,
briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product/Service

Description of the risk/concern

Action Taken

Transformers including Power/Distribution
and Traction transformer

End of life disposal of Product

Decommissioning guidelines available

Instrument Transformers

Oil Spillage – Land Contamination/Water
Pollution

Preventive maintenance program in place, oil
collection trays, spill kit and safe disposal

Circuit Breakers

SF6 Leakage – Global Warming

SF6 Management system with Mass balance.
Leakage sensors.

Gas Insulated & Hybrid Switchgear

SF6 Leakage – Global Warming

SF6 Management system with Mass balance.
Leakage sensors.

	Life-cycle Assessments (LCAs) and risks as well as collaboration with and feedback from customers are used as input for
improving the environmental performance of its products, systems, and services.
	Manufacturing processes are environment friendly, however the LCA assessment are being done internally, impacts will be
reviewed for social and environmental concerns.

76

Corporate Overview

Statutory Reports

Integrated Report

Financial Statements

3.	Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
Indicate input material

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

NA

NA

	The Company manufactures and delivers transformers to customers. Transformers are designed by prioritizing their efficiency,
resilience, and longevity, by strategically selecting special component materials to accommodate high electrical, mechanical, and
thermal loads and stresses. They are customized designs with rigorous technical specifications to ensure efficient, reliable, and
safe operations that would last 30 to 40 years or even longer. Transformer services contribute to extending the service life and to
increasing the productivity of the built-in materials. We are also providing declarations on recyclability rates of our transformers
at their end of life and delivering decommissioning and materials recovery guidelines to maximizing material recovery and to
support an environmentally friendly and safe end of life management. With our supply chain we are continuously gathering data
on recycled content in sourced materials and partnering with stakeholders on establishing more circular material value chains.
As of today, the recycled content rate in sourced main materials varies between 10 and 100% for materials such as e-steel,
carbon steel, aluminium, copper and insulating mineral oil.
4.	Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled,
and safely disposed, as per the following format:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

Particulars

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Re-Used

Recycled

Safely
Disposed

Re-Used

Recycled

Safely
Disposed

Plastics (including packaging)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

E-waste

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Hazardous waste

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Other waste

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

	Majority of packaging material used are wood and recyclable plastic. Packaging wastes are disposed by the end user as per
local pollution control board requirements to authorized recyclers.
5.

Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Indicate product category

Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products sold in respective category

Nil

Nil

PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in
their value chains
People well-being
The Company continues to attract top talent due to its inclusive culture and the immense opportunities available for nurturing their
talent. The people strategy is aligned with the Company’s overall ambition to be a pioneering technology leader. This requires a
stable work environment in a growing market by maximizing the potential of the Company’s workforce. To ensure that the Company
continues to attract top talent, multiple employer branding initiatives were launched not limiting to career fairs, recruitment drives,
university connect programs and internship opportunities. During the year, the Company has consistently set a clear path to learn
and adapt to perform better in the changing market situation with its enhanced performance management and talent strategy,
focusing on building a healthy pipeline by attracting, assessing and developing talent. In addition, persistent attention to provide an
inclusive environment to promote diversity in gender, age and culture, including opportunities for global mobility, also form a part of
the proactive plan to manage talent in key function areas. The Company’s competency has been aligned with the business strategy.
The Company recognized exceptional performance and behavior in line with organizational values through its rewards and recognition
program. There was continuous focus on improving the diversity in the workforce throughout the year. A diversity outreach program,
IGNITE 2.0 was also launched to encourage rehiring of performers who may have left their career for various reasons. The entire
approach to well-being was based on increasing diversity, promoting inclusion and recognizing performance. Multiple awareness
sessions on physical & mental health and well-being were organized in different office locations and factories to create awareness.
Annual medical check-ups and camps were set up through the year to promote physical well-being.

Career development and opportunities
Keeping a strong focus on future talent pipeline development, the Company has sustained its journey on ‘Develop & Grow’ pillar this
year, with the objective of enabling a powerful talent ecosystem that helps build and develop capabilities for the future. The Company
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

77

have built a new paradigm of ‘hybrid jobs’ that combine technology, domain and industry experience. This enables us to attract
skillsets that complement its growth paradigm. The Company is also reskilling its workforce through structured learning paths and
offering them a new-age skill identity through various talent assessments & customized learning to bridge skill gaps. The Company
continues to enable internal talent growth and development by offering open dialogues, having regular performance and development
reviews including structured feedback, knowledge transfer and other opportunities for enriching their career. Talent redeployment has
been encouraged by providing avenues for internal mobility through talent rotation when any new opportunity of hire arises. Adding
to this, opportunities to work on different projects locally and across geographies/businesses have also been provided.
The Company encourages its employees to progress within the organization as opportunities arise. The organization has a strong
talent management process to evaluate the best of talent, encourage and provide career development opportunities for promising
employees through individual career development plans. Developing leaders internally continues to be a priority for the Company
& with that in mind, succession plans are developed for all critical roles in the organization post talent risk assessments and
engagement study.

Essential Indicators
1.

a)

Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category

Total
(A)

Health insurance

Accident insurance

Maternity benefits

Paternity Benefits

Day Care facilities

Number
(B)

%
(B/A)

Number
(C)

Number
(D)

%
(D/A)

Number
(E)

%
(E/A)

Number
(F)

%
(C/A)

%
(F/A)

Permanent employees
Male

1625

1625

100%

1625

100%

NA

NA

1625

100%

770

47%

Female

185

185

100%

185

100%

185

100%

NA

NA

97

52%

Total

1810

1810

100%

1810

100%

185

100%

1625

100%

867

48%

100%

53

100%

NA

NA

53

100%

36

68%

Other than Permanent employees
Male

b)

53

53

Female

11

11

100%

11

100%

11

100%

NA

NA

7

64%

Total

64

64

100%

64

100%

11

100%

53

100%

43

67%

Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of workers covered by
Category

Total
(A)

Health insurance

Accident insurance

Maternity benefits

Paternity Benefits

Day Care facilities*

Number
(B)

%
(B/A)

Number
(C)

%
(C/A)

Number
(D)

%
(D/A)

Number
(E)

%
(E/A)

Number
(F)

%
(F/A)

Permanent employees
Male

562

562

100%

562

100%

NA

NA

562

100%

463

82%

Female

3

3

100%

3

100%

3

100%

NA

NA

1

33%

Total

565

565

100%

565

100%

3

0.5%

562

99.5%

464

82%

100%

491

100%

NA

NA

491

100%

374

76%

Other than Permanent employees
Male

		

491

491

Female

41

41

100%

41

100%

41

100%

NA

NA

20

49%

Total

532

532

100%

532

100%

41

7.7%

491

92.3%

394

74%

* Day Care facilities are available in Peenya, Doddaballapur and Maneja.

c)	Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than
permanent) in the following format:

Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total
revenue of the Company
		

78

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

0.30%

-

* Data from previous year not included as information has been sourced and calculated from the current financial year only.

Corporate Overview

2.

Statutory Reports

Integrated Report

Financial Statements

Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year
Particulars

No of employee
covered as
a % of total
employees

No of workers
covered as a %
of total workers

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Deducted and
deposited with
the authority
(Y/ N/ NA)

No of employee
covered as
a % of total
employees

No of workers
covered as a %
of total workers

Deducted and
deposited with
the authority
(Y/ N/ NA)

PF

100

100

Y

100

100

Y

Gratuity

100

100

Y

100

100

Y

ESI

1

2.47

Y

3

0

Y

Others-please specify

29

0

Y

23

0

Y

Notes:
• There are 25 employees covered under ESI
• Superannuation is an optional retirement benefit for employees. Around 531 employees have availed the scheme.
• Superannuation & Gratuity is deposited with respective trusts.
3.

Accessibility of workplaces

	Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
Yes, the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers.
4.	Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so,
provide a web-link to the policy.
	Yes. Link provided in Annexure 1.
5.

Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender

Permanent employees
Return to work rate

Permanent employees

Retention rate

Return to work rate

Retention rate

Male

100%

100%

100%

100%

Female

100%

100%

100%

100%

Total

100%

100%

100%

100%

Note: 110 employees have availed maternity/ paternity and 100% of them have resumed work.
6.	Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and
worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
	Yes, there are multiple ways, the employees can report their concerns/ grievances. The employees may use the Ethics helpline/
dedicated e-mail ID, inform the Immediate reporting manager/ HR representative for the function or the country Integrity officer,
Internal committee – Prevention of sexual harassment (POSH) etc.
The Grievances received will be thoroughly examined and enquires will be done in the given timeframe to resolve the same.
Particulars

Yes/No
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)

Permanent workers

POSH policy, Ethics Global email

Other than permanent workers

POSH policy, Ethics Global email

Permanent employees

POSH policy, Ethics Global email

Other than permanent employees

POSH policy, Ethics Global email

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

79

7.

Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year
Particulars

8.

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Total
No of employees/
employees/
workers in respective
workers in category, who are part of
respective
association(s) or Union
category (A)
(B)

Total
No of employees/
employees/
workers in respective
workers in category, who are part of
respective
association(s) or Union
category (C)
(D)

%
(B / A)

%
(C/D)

Total permanent employees

1810

0

0

1765

0

0

- Male

1625

0

0

1614

0

0

- Female

185

0

0

151

0

0

Total permanent workers

565

565

100

558

558

100

- Male

562

562

100

554

554

100

- Female

3

3

100

4

4

100

Details of training given to employees and workers:
Yes, all the Company employees underwent training on health & safety measures.
Skill upgradation programs are conducted on a periodical basis.

	The casual/contractual employees are subjected to skill-based training depending on the work and job roles. Training matrix
is designed based on their job risk profiles. As and when required, refresher trainings are provided to upgrade skills based on
any changes in the work/job profiles of employees.
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year
Particulars

Total
(A)

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

On health and
safety measures*

On skill
upgradation

No. (B)

% (B/A)

No C

% (C/A)

Total
(D)

On health and
safety measures*

On skill
upgradation#

No. (E)

% (E/D)

No. (F)

% (F/D)

Employees
Male

1625

1625

100

1625

100

1614

1614

100

1614

100

Female

185

185

100

185

100

151

151

100

151

100

Total

1810

1810

100

1810

100

1765

1765

100

1765

100

Workers
Male

562

562

100

562

100

554

554

100

554

100

Female

3

3

100

3

100

4

4

100

4

100

Total

565

565

100

565

100

558

558

100

558

100

* Regular programs on health and safety measures are conducted for all employees and workers.

9.

Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Particulars

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Total (A)

No. (B)

% (B/A)

Total (C)

No (D)

% (D/C)

- Male

1625

1342

83

1614

1366

85

- Female

185

121

65

151

109

72

Total

1810

1463

81

1765

1475

84

Employees

Workers
- Male
- Female
Total

562 Refer note below
3 Refer note below
565 Refer note below

Note: Above numbers for employees are based on the Annual Salary Revision eligibility of the financial year.

80

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

	At the Company, Non-Management Staff (NMS) are also eligible for meritorious increment /promotion according to practice of
respective location in addition to normal increment. This practice differs based on the location and terms agreed with the Union.
Details given below:
1. Peenya: Appraisal period April to March
				
Each workman eligible for promotion after every 3rd year
2. Mysuru: Appraisal period January to December
				
All NMS eligible for promotion once in 4 years.
3. Maneja: Appraisal period April to March
				35% of total strength eligible for promotion. Meritorious increment 15% of total strength discontinued w.e.f. April 1,
2023, as agreed in settlement with the Union dated December 23, 2022.
10. Health and safety management system:
a)	Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity?
(Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage such system?
		Yes, all our manufacturing sites have implemented and are certified for Occupational Health and Safety management
system as per ISO 45001:2018.
b)	What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine
basis by the entity?
		At the Company, we take the management of HSE and Sustainability risks very seriously and aim to reduce these risks to
the lowest practicable level and, where possible, eliminate them. Activity Based Risk Assessment (ABRA) is conducted
for all activities which present a risk to health safety and environment. ABRA is a 5-phase methodology which involves
– Identification of risks, Assessment/Prioritization of the risk of each hazard exposure, Implementation of the controls,
Communication of the risks and controls and Monitoring & Review of controls for effectiveness.
c)	Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from
such risks. (Y / N)
		Yes
d)	Do the employees/worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services?
(Yes/No)
		Yes
11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number

Category

Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per Employees
one million-person hours worked)
Workers
Total recordable work-related injuries
No. of fatalities

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

0.67

0.59

0.36

1.00

Employees

9

7

Workers

3

8

Employees

0

0

Workers

1

0

High consequence work-related injury or ill - Employees
health (excluding fatalities)
Workers

0

0

0

0

* The data for the previous year has been revised to reflect the updated information and recalculated figures.

12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	Safety is vital to our ‘license to operate’ and being a business that people want to work for or with. We minimize risk of harm
and are committed to eradicating fatalities, life-changing injuries, and major environmental incidents.
Our long-term HSE commitments
• Positive health and well-being work environments
• Safe working conditions as well as continual improvement
• Environmental protection to minimize our impact.
• Learnings from successes and failures
• Trust by open reporting and through external validation
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

81

Our key safety programs include
• The Life-Saving Rules (LSRs) apply to all employees and contractors regardless of work location or their role. Life-saving
rules – eLearning is now mandatory for the Company’s employees.
• Electrical safety awareness (PICW) programs are organized for employees and contractors who perform an electrical work.
• Contractor management – Management of contractors is critical to achieving good safety.
• Risk management – We aim to reduce risks to the lowest practical level. Activity Based Risk Assessment is conducted for all
activities which present a risk to HSE. Risk Assessments periodically and on need basis. Controls are established to reduce
risks and communicated.
• Manual material handling – The manual handling and transport of heavy loads can cause discomfort, muscular aches, back
pain or even injuries. Techniques for safe manual handling is provided as a guide to minimize manual material handling risks
and improve workplace ergonomics.
• Safety Observation Tour (SOT) – SOT helps us learn and improve safety.
• HSE training – Training plans are developed based on the assessment of the current level of competence and awareness.
Trainings are in consideration of individual capabilities and cultural aspects. All trainings shall consider the differing levels of
responsibility, risks, ability, language skills and literacy. All relevant staff and persons working on behalf of the Company shall
participate in trainings as defined in the training plan.
• Internal & external audits are carried out to check the adequacy of systems, procedures, and control are implemented.
• Management reviews the status of the HSE Management System with regards to suitability, effectiveness and adequacy
and opportunities for improvement.
• HSE Management system has been implemented as per ISO 14001 & 45001 and continual improvements are carried out.
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year
Particulars

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Filed during
the year

Pending
resolution at
the end of year

Remarks

Filed during
the year

Pending
resolution at
the end of year

Remarks

Working conditions

0

0

Nil

0

0

Nil

Health & Safety

0

0

Nil

0

0

Nil

14. Assessments for the year:
Particulars

% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)

Health and safety practices

100%

Working conditions

100%

15.	Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on
significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	Owing to our operations, our significant risks are in areas involving electrical work, excavation/trenching, machine work,
mechanical lifting – suspended loads, work at height, confined spaces, working with chemical and work environments such as
mines, offshore works. The Company uses a simple-5 phase approach to manage HSE and Sustainability risks at all levels of
our organization which allows our risk owners to make good decisions based on sound risk assessments. Our approach is:
• Identify the risks.
• Assess/Prioritize the risk of each hazard exposure.
• Implement the controls.
• Communicate the risks and controls.
• Monitor & Review controls for effectiveness.
• Stop! Take 5 is the name given in the Company for a risk assessment that is conducted just before start of any activity.
• The Life-Saving Rules (LSRs) apply to all employees and contractors regardless of work location or their role. Our safety rules
and procedures create ‘barriers’ that prevent potential incidents from happening. When fully applied they should prevent
incidents. A key role of the life-saving rules is to help keep our safety ‘barriers’ solid and everyone safe from harm. Our 10 Life
Saving Rules protect our employees and contractors from the activities most likely to cause serious harm or death if safety
rules are not fully and properly applied.

82

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

In response to the fatality in one of our project sites in July, we took corrective action in the following areas at all our sites:
• Identification of all high-risk activities at all sites and monitoring closely.
• Implementation of Life Saving Rules with all the controls and monitoring.
• Site physical inspection program and reporting (MySafety Focus App).
• Site audit program
• Contractors’ HSE behavior
• Competency assessment of site management in managing HSE risk
• Visible leadership in HSE.
• Emphasis on site manager, HSE manager and PM’s accountability of “Duty of care” of HSE for all employees, contractors,
and partners.

Leadership Indicators
1.	Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees
(Y / N) (B) Workers (Y / N).
(A)

Employees – Yes

(B)

Workers – Yes

2.	Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited
by the value chain partners.
	Periodic compliance audit of value chain partners is done for ensuring the statutory dues paid properly. Awareness sessions
are also being conducted on latest practices.
3.	Provide the number of employees/ workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury/ ill-health/
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
We had one fatality involving our worker in the current year.
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated and placed
in suitable employment or whose family members have been
placed in suitable employment

Total Number of affected
Employees/Workers

Particulars

April 1, 2023 – March 31, 2024 April 1, 2022 – March 31, 2023 April 1, 2023 – March 31, 2024 April 1, 2022 – March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year

Employee

0

0

0

0

Workers

1

0

0

0

4.	Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management
of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/No)
No
5.

Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Particulars

% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed

Health and Safety Practice

-

Working Condition

-

6.	Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	The Responsible Manager ensure compliance regarding all legal country, state, or local regulations. Value chain partners/
Contractor workers are trained and authorized to perform the assigned task and ensured each worker adheres to all applicable
HSE rules and site procedures of the Company.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

83

PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
Sustainability performance forms an important basis for the Company’s dialogue with its stakeholders. A comprehensive dialogue
with key stakeholders and its inputs and feedback enabled the Company to revisit its materiality matrix and developed the next level
2030 objectives. The Sustainability 2030 Objectives are established by the Group and the legal entity has incorporated the same
along with the local objectives.
The Company had dialogues with various Government entities central and state with regards to policy and presentation on the
Company’s innovative sustainable solutions such as electric vehicle charging and “Make-in-India”, smart cities, sustainable mobility
solutions, energy efficiency, efficiency upgradation in the railways sector, renewable energy, growth developments & technology
keeping the climate change, job skilling, etc. The Company also carried out its Supplier Sustainable Development Program (SSDP)
across chosen vendors.
As a part of continuous improvement in supplier sustainability, The Company have introduced a program to monitor and improve
Greenhouse gases emissions originating in the Company’s suppliers. In this direction, the Company collaborated with its third-party
service providers M/s Bureau Veritas India Ltd, to provide training to its key suppliers to identify, measure and monitor the emission
levels within their area of manufacturing.
The Company during the period also organized several customer engagements events to bring the Company’s technologies closer
to the customers. The Company organized multiple customers connect programs on HSE/SA, to hear to the voice of the customer
to further improve the performance and to include the inputs of the customer into the strategy of the Company.
1.

Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
Leadership teams across businesses and functions review various audiences - primary to tertiary - to identify.
- those that we have most interactions and exchanges
- those whom we impact economically and socially, and vice versa
- with whom we create value and enable the energy transition
- communities and those whom we can support
These groups have been classified broadly as our key stakeholders, as listed below.

2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each
stakeholder group.
Whether
identified as
Stakeholder group Vulnerable &
Marginalized
Group (Yes/No)

Channels of Communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper,
Pamphlets, Advertisement,
Community Meetings, Notice
Board, Website), Other

Frequency of
engagement
(Annually/ Half yearly/
Quarterly/ Othersplease specify)

Purpose and scope of engagement
including key topics and concerns raised
during such engagement

Business

84

Customers

No

Emails,
Meetings, Trainings, Webinars

Ad hoc

Knowledge sharing
Presentation of innovative sustainable
solutions

Suppliers

No

Development Programs,
Meetings, Emails

Annual
Ongoing

Supplier Sustainable Development program

Investors

No

Email, Newspaper Advertisement, Annual, quarterly and
on a need basis
Boards’ Report, Quarterly
Financials, Annual Financials,
Website, Analyst Call, Annual
General Meeting

Welfare of investors by management of
business operations in best possible way,
timely identification of risks and its mitigation
and imbibed with principles of integrity and
sustainability in all aspects of the Company
Business performance Annual general body
meeting

Employees

No

HSE & Sustainability Programs & Ongoing
Trainings, Townhalls,
Employee Welfare Programs,
Emails

Communication & feedback

Competitors

No

Seminars,
Industry Events
& Associations

Networking & knowledge sharing

Event based

Corporate Overview

Whether
identified as
Stakeholder group Vulnerable &
Marginalized
Group (Yes/No)

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Channels of Communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper,
Pamphlets, Advertisement,
Community Meetings, Notice
Board, Website), Other

Frequency of
engagement
(Annually/ Half yearly/
Quarterly/ Othersplease specify)

Financial Statements

Purpose and scope of engagement
including key topics and concerns raised
during such engagement

Government
Government and
regulators

No

Meetings

Need based

Presentation of innovative sustainable
solutions

Legislators and
the law

No

Meetings

Need based

Compliances

Trade bodies

No

Seminars, Conferences

Event based

Networking & knowledge sharing

No

Meetings

Ad hoc

Partner for Sustainability programs

Local communities Yes

Community Meetings

Ongoing

Engagement for CSR activities

Academia
and scientific
community

No

Seminars, Meetings, Campus
Connect Programs

Ad hoc

R&D and educational partnerships

Media

No

Meetings, Press Release, Events Quarterly

Thought leadership, Communication &
branding

NGOs and
civil society
organizations,
trade unions

No

Interactions, Meetings

Implementation of CSR projects
Employee welfare

Civil society
International
organizations

Ad hoc

Leadership Indicators
1.	Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	The Company consults with stakeholders through various engagements and discussed with Board. Annual general meeting,
analyst calls, customer events, community engagement programs are some means consultation is carried out.
2.	Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and
social topics (Yes/No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these
topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	Yes. Stakeholder consultation an important factor in identifying our material environmental and social topics. Resource efficiency
in our operations especially water and waste reduction, emissions reductions are key areas of interest to our stakeholders under
environment, while diversity equity and inclusion is one topic of importance which has driven us to act through various initiatives
within the organization as well as helped us identify it as an important topic in our community engagements.
3.	Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/
marginalized stakeholder groups.
	Yes. The Company has identified vulnerable/marginalized stakeholder groups and is creating an impact through its CSR projects
by providing quality education in technology institutes for girl students and through Women in Engineering program providing
scholarships across 6 states for nearly 250 young women.

PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
The Company values are rooted in respect, including respect for the human rights of every single person who works for or with us.
Respecting and promoting human rights in its business activities is one of its priorities in its community’s impact area. The Group
recognizes that respect for human rights is a basic requirement and that failure to do so can cause harm to people and adversely
affect business, with potential legal, financial and reputational consequences.
The Company follows its Human Rights Policy and a Social Policy to respect human rights and to avoid causing or contributing to
adverse human rights impacts through own activities. The policy draws on the Universal Declaration of human rights, the International
Labor Organization (ILO) core conventions on labor standards, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), The Organization for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and UN Sustainable Development Goals
(SDG). All employees have access to the human rights e-learning, which describes the human rights principles and risks for the
Company. The Company has made a provision, employees shall report any human rights risk or violation that might occur during
projects, services and operations of the Company. Human Rights performance are being monitored based on relevant indicators
to evaluate and to prevent human rights impacts in all the Company’s operations and workplaces. The Company’s Human Rights

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

85

and Social Policies specifically refer to the ILO core conventions as the minimum to be achieved, with respect to non-discrimination,
prohibition of child and enforced labor, freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining. The United Nations
(UN) guiding principles are central to the Company’s human rights training. A global awareness-raising program for all focuses on
understanding how the Company can potentially impact human rights, the importance of due diligence and how the Company is
embedding human rights in business processes, a global capacity building program is under way.
During the year under review, the Company has not received any grievances related to human rights. The Company, in line with the
Group policy, seeks to raise its standards, and increase its understanding, and mitigation of human rights risks.

Essential Indicators
1.	Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in
the following format:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year
Particulars

No. of
employees/
workers
covered (B)

Total
(A)

Permanent
Other than permanent
Total employees

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year
No. of
employees/
workers
covered (D)

Total
(C)

% (B/A)

% (C/D)

1,810

1,810

100

1,765

1,765

100

64

64

100

64

64

100

1,874

1,874

100

1,829

1,829

100

Workers
Permanent

565

565

100

558

558

100

Other than permanent

532

532

100

552

552

100

1,097

1,097

100

1,110

1,110

100

Total workers

2.

Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year
Particulars
Total (A)

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Equal to Minimum
wage

More than
Minimum wage

No. B)

No. C

% (B/A)

Total (D)

% (C/A)

Equal to Minimum
wage

More than
Minimum wage

No. (E)

% (E/D)

No. (F)

% (F/D)

Employees
Permanent
Male

1,625

0

0

1,625

100

1614

0

0

1,614

100

Female

185

0

0

185

100

151

0

0

151

100

Male

53

0

0

53

100

44

0

0

44

100

Female

11

0

0

11

100

20

0

0

20

100

Other than Permanent

Workers
Permanent
Male

562

0

0

0

100

554

0

0

554

100

Female

3

0

0

0

100

4

0

0

4

100

Male

491

0

0

491

100

521

0

0

521

100

Female

41

0

0

41

100

31

0

0

31

100

Other than Permanent

86

Corporate Overview

3.

Statutory Reports

Integrated Report

Financial Statements

Details of remuneration/ salary/ wages, in the following format:
a)

Median remuneration/wages:
Male

Particulars

Female

Number

Median remuneration/ salary/
wages of respective category K

Number

Median remuneration/ salary/
wages of respective category

2*

2,35,05,783

2

30,96,667

Board of Directors (BOD)
Key managerial personnel (KMP)

3

2,36,82,862

0

NA

Employees other than BOD and KMP

2508

11,08,153

248

7,30,431

Workers

562

10,94,240

3

10,36,974

* For the calculation of Median Remuneration, the remuneration paid to Managing Director & CEO relates to fixed component of salary and
excludes the performance bonus and long-term Incentive Plan payout as per the amount disclosed elsewhere in the Board’s Report.

b)

Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:

Particulars

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

6.78%

-

Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages

* Data from previous year not included as information has been sourced and calculated from the current financial year only.

4.	Do you have a focal point (Individual/Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) - Yes
5.

Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
The Company has Internal committees to redress various grievances.

6.

Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year
Particulars

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Filed during
year

Pending
resolution at the
end of the year

Remarks

Filed during
year

Pending
resolution at the
end of the year

Remarks

Sexual harassment

0

0

Nil

0

0

Nil

Discrimination at workplace

11

0

Nil

6

0

Nil

Child labor

0

0

Nil

0

0

Nil

Forced labor/Involuntary labor

0

0

Nil

0

0

Nil

Wages

0

0

Nil

0

0

Nil

Other human rights related issues

0

0

Nil

0

0

Nil

7.	Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013, in the following format:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

Particulars

8.

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013 (POSH)

0

0

Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/workers

0

0

Complaints on POSH upheld

0

0

Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
Policies are made and awareness been given to employees on the same.

9.

Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
Yes

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

87

10. Assessments for the year:
Particulars

% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)

Child labor

100

Forced/Involuntary labor

100

Sexual harassment

100

Discrimination at workplace

100

Wages

100

Others-please specify

Nil

11.	Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from
the assessments at Question 9 above.
Not applicable

Leadership Indictors
1.	Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.
None received.
2.

Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.

3.	Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Provisions are available.
4.

Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Particulars

% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed

Sexual harassment

100

Discrimination at workplace

100

Child labor

100

Forced Labor/ nvoluntary labor

100

Wages

100

Others-please specify

100

5.	Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from
the assessments at Question 4 above.
None

PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment.
The Company is shaping the future of sustainable energy by enabling the integration of renewables in an energy efficient and reliable
grid. Enabling integration of renewable energy is at the core of our business. In all our operations, we strive to minimize waste, use of
natural resources, energy and hazardous substances, always in compliance with legislation. Our ambition is to become climate neutral.
We are committed to engage with our stakeholders to reduce the environmental impact from our products and solutions along their
life cycle, from extraction of raw materials to customers’ use and end-of-life, to protect the planet from degradation. We collaborate
with customers, suppliers, external organizations and educational institutions to help the Company implement effective programs
that are good for the environment, and better for business.

88

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Essential Indicators
1.

Details of total energy consumption (in Giga Joules) and energy intensity, in the following format:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year *

Total electricity consumption (A)

1,77,402

1,62,419

Total fuel consumption (B)

1,68,300

1,74,235

0

0

3,45,702

3,36,654

Parameter

From renewable sources

Energy consumption through other sources (C)
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
Total fuel consumption (E)
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
Total energy consumed from non- renewable sources (D+E+F)

0

0

49,821

42,886

0

0

49,821

42,886

3,95,523

3,79,540

Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumed/
Revenue from operations) (GJ/Crores H)

75.52

84.65

Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing
Power Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed/Revenue from
operations adjusted for PPP)

-

-

Energy intensity in terms of physical output

-

-

Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be
selected by the entity

-

-

Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)

* The data for the previous year has been revised to reflect the updated information and recalculated figures.

2.	Does the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y / N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT
scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
Not applicable
3.

Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

Surface water

2,04,179

2,16,657

(ii) Groundwater

1,32,012

1,83,480

32,365

27,290

0

0

Parameter

Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i)

(iii) Third party water
(iv) Sea water/desalinated water
(v) Others

0

0

Total volume of water withdrawal (in kiloliters)
(i + ii + iii + iv + v)

3,68,556

4,27,427

Total volume of water consumption (in kiloliters)

3,68,556

4,27,427

-

-

Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing
Power Parity (PPP) (Total water consumption/Revenue from
operations adjusted for PPP)
Water intensity in terms of physical output
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected
by the entity (kL/Crores H)

-

-

70.37

95.33

*The data for the previous year has been revised to reflect the updated information and recalculated figures.

	Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / N) If yes,
name of the external agency.
No.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

89

4.	Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y / N) If yes, name of the external agency.
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

(i)

To Surface water
- No treatment - With treatment
	- With treatment - please specify level of treatment

0

0

(ii) To Groundwater
- No treatment
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment

0

0

(iii) To Seawater
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment

0

0

(iv) Sent to third-parties
- No treatment
	Water treated in own sewage treatment plant and
discharged to municipal sewage

26,996

67,119

(v) Others - No treatment
- With treatment
	Water treated in own sewage treatment plant and utilized
to irrigate garden and flush toilets.

1,19,260

1,37,496

Total water discharged (in kL)

1,46,255

2,04,615

Parameter

Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)

*The data for the previous year has been revised to reflect the updated information and recalculated figures.

	Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / N) If yes,
name of the external agency.
No.
5.	Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage
and implementation.
	Yes. The Company has taken various initiatives on water conservation to reduce freshwater consumption. All facilities have
installed sewage treatment plant to treat domestic sewage. In line with Zero Liquid discharge approach, the facilities reuse
treated wastewater for irrigating garden as well as for flushing purposes thereby reducing use of freshwater for the activity. Only
Maneja discharges treated sewage to municipal sewer. The facility is currently working towards utilizing the treated wastewater
within the site for irrigation, flushing and construction activities.
6.

Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter

Please specify unit

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

NOx

PPM

Complied

Complied

SOx

PPM

Complied

Complied

Particulate matter (PM)

µg/m3

Complied

Complied

NA

NA

Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)

µg/m3

Complied

Complied

Hazardous air pollutant (HAP)

NA

NA

Others – please specify

-

-

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / N) If
yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, Environment assessment done by Pollution control board approved Laboratory in respective states.

90

Corporate Overview

7.

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024 April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year*

Parameter

Please specify unit

Total Scope 1 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs,
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)

Metric tonnes of CO2
equivalent

3,285

3,725

Total Scope 2 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs,
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)

Metric tonnes of CO2
equivalent

0

0

Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of
turnover
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/Revenue
from operations)

tCO2e/Crores H

0.63

0.83

Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee
of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/Revenue
from operations adjusted for PPP)

-

-

-

Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms
of physical output

-

-

-

Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional)
– the relevant metric may be selected by the entity

-

-

-

*The data for the previous year has been revised to reflect the updated information and recalculated figures

The CO2 emission is calculated considering International Renewable Energy Certification (I-REC) procured for electricity consumed.
	Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / N) If yes,
name of the external agency.
No.
8.

Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.

	The main sources of the Company’s direct (Scope 1) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are the fuels used in our operations,
such as natural gas usage and SF6 losses during production processes and gas handling on site. Indirect (Scope 2) GHG
emissions from purchased electricity. The Company recognizes the need to limit global warming to no more than 1.5C above
pre-industrial levels, in order to avoid the worst affects of climate change. As such, our ambition is to become carbon neutral in
our own operations by 2030 and achieve Net Zero across the entire value chain by 2050. To achieve this, we have implemented
several projects and initiatives which include: Solar roof top installations at Maneja where 932 kW is installed of which 292 kW
is operational and Doddaballapur where 600 kW is installed. The installed capacity would meet 20-30% of total electricity
requirement in each of the facilities. Mysuru facility has Power Purchase Agreements which caters to nearly 90% of its electricity
requirement. The remaining GHG from grid electricity is covered by purchasing International Renewable Energy Certificates
(I-REC). Going forward we will move away from purchasing I-REC to more direct, and potentially more value adding methods
such as green tariffs, Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) and own generation.
	At project site, solar roof top installations are used to power offices at Adani HVDC project and 6 GPQS sites totaling 47.7 kW
capacity. 6 sets solar based mobile charging facility with 3 lights and 2 USB installed in rest sheds and worker colony and 7 CNG
vehicles are used at HVDC site.
	Energy conservation activities include replacing conventional lamps with LED, installation of solar lights, electrical retrofits such
as replacement of old drives and compressors with energy efficient equipment; process improvements such as optimizing
operations of HVAC and AHUs and thermal insulation of hotlines to prevent heat loss. At Maneja, energy monitoring systems
were installed to monitor energy consumption patterns and take appropriate actions. 7 nos. of HT/LT substations and 53 energy
meters are connected to the monitoring system. At Halol and Maneja, LPG was replaced by low carbon PNG while Mysuru uses
biofuel such as paddy husk and waste dust from own operations to fuel its boilers. Replacing old R22 based HVAC systems to
high COP R410A at Maneja has also resulted in reduction in GHG emissions.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

91

9.

Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

Plastic waste (A)

89.3

107.2

E-waste (B)

13.2

18.8

Bio-medical waste (C)

0.1

0.05

Parameter

Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)

Construction and demolition waste (D)

NA

NA

Battery waste (E)

7.2

8.8

Radioactive waste (F)

NA

NA

Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
(Used Oil, Resin, oily quartz & papers, glass wool, discarded
containers)

277.8

339.1

Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if
any. (Ferrous - MS & SS) & Nonferrous (Copper, Aluminum)
Wood waste & dust) (Break-up by composition i.e., by
materials relevant to the sector)

7,438.3

8,152.0

Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H)

7,825.8

8,625.9

Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated /
cr revenue from operations)

1.49

1.92

Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing
Power Parity (PPP) (Total waste generated/Revenue from
operations adjusted for PPP)

-

-

Waste intensity in terms of physical output

-

-

Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected
by the entity

-

-

For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)

Recycled

97%

96%

(ii) Re-used

-

0

(iii) Other recovery operations

-

0

Total
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)

Incineration

206

230

(ii) Landfilling

24

81

(iii) Other disposal operations
Total

-

0

230

311

*The data for the previous year has been revised to reflect the updated information and recalculated figures.

	Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / N) If yes,
name of the external agency.
No.
10.	Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and
the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	Managing waste from its own operations has been the Company’s priority and has been continuously improved through the
Company management system standard for waste management. We strive to always 1) reduce waste generated 2) reuse what
we can, and 3) recycle all possible waste generated. We work continuously to move waste upwards in the waste hierarchy and,
finally, eliminate it. At a company level, we implement the 5Rs, where ‘rethink’ and ‘repair’ are included, mostly relating to the
way we deliver value to customers.
	Integration of sustainability considerations in Research & Development (R&D) gate models to ensure that Health, Safety, and
Environment are considered and understood when assessing R&D projects. Environmentally Conscious Design (ECD) reduces
a product’s environmental impact, while maintaining or improving its functionality. Integration of environmental aspects as
early as possible into the product design and development process enables organizations to make effective decisions about
environmental aspects that they control.

92

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

	Reducing generation of waste and reducing the wastes that is sent to landfill or for incineration remains the Company’s focal
area. Waste reduction is incorporated in the product design stage to ensure waste minimization in manufacturing process.
Source segregation of waste, in-house recycling of packaging materials and reuse continues to add more value to waste and
reduces the quantum of non-recyclable wastes that are sent to landfill. All wastes are sent to relevant Pollution Control Board
(PCB) authorized recyclers.
11.	If the entity has operations/ offices in/ around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where
environmental approvals/clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
Not applicable
Sr.
No.

Location of
operations/offices

Whether the conditions of environmental approval/clearance are being
complied with? (Y / N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.

Type of operations

NA

12.	Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in
the current financial year:
Not applicable
Name and brief details
of project

EIA Notification
No.

Date

Whether conducted by independent
external agency (Yes/No)

Results communicated in
public domain (Yes/No)

Relevant
Web-link

NA

13.	Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act
and rules thereunder (Y / N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
Yes, the Company has complied with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India.
Sr.
No.

Any fines/ penalties/ action taken by
regulatory agencies such as pollution
control boards or by courts

Specify the law/ regulation/ guidelines Provide details of the
which was not complied with
non-compliance

Corrective action taken
if any

NA

Leadership Indicators
1.	Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources,
in the following format:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

Total electricity consumption (A) # GJ

1,77,402

1,48,492

Total fuel consumption (B)

1,68,300

1,75,558

Parameter

From renewable sources

Energy consumption through other sources (C)

0

0

Total energy consumed from renewable sources
(A+B+C)

3,45,702

3,24,050

0

0

49,821

42,886

0

0

3,95,523

3,66,936

From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
Total fuel consumption (E) **
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources
(D+E+F)

* The data for the previous year has been revised to reflect the updated information and recalculated figures.
# Total electricity consumption from renewable source consists of renewable energy from Power Purchase Agreements, in-house solar roof

top electricity generation and purchasing of International Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECs).
** Fuel consumption does not include the fuels consumed from fleet operations.

	Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / N) If yes,
name of the external agency.
No.
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

93

2.

Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i)

(ii)

To Surface water
- No treatment

0

0

-	With treatment - please specify level of treatment

0

0

- No treatment

0

0

- With treatment - please specify level of treatment

0

0

- No treatment

0

0

- With treatment - please specify level of treatment

0

0

To Groundwater

(iii) To Seawater

(iv) Sent to third - parties
- No treatment
-	With treatment - treated in own STP as per local
pollution control board norms and discharged to
municipal sewage in Maneja
(v)

0

0

26,996

67,119

1,19,260

1,37,496

1,46,255

2,04,615

Others
- No treatment
-	With treatment – treated in own STP as per local
pollution control board norms used for irrigation and
flushing

Total water discharged (in kiloliters)

* The data for the previous year has been revised to reflect the updated information and recalculated figures.

	Water is treated in own sewage treatment plant as per local pollution control board norms to meet sewage treated water
quality requirements.
	Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / N) If yes,
name of the external agency.
No.
3.

Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters):
For each facility/plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
(i)

Name of the area:

		As per World Resources Institute in India, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat face high to extremely high water stress.
(ii)

Nature of operations:

		

Manufacturing of Transformers, Bushings & Breakers

		

Manufacturing of control panels, substation automation system & grid automation products

(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

Surface water

2,04,179

2,16,657

(ii) Groundwater

1,32,012

1,83,480

32,365

27,290

(iv) Seawater/desalinated water

0

0

(v) Others

0

0

Total volume of water withdrawal (in kiloliters)

3,68,556

4,27,427

Total volume of water consumption (in kiloliters)

3,68,556

4,27,427

Parameter

Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i)

(iii) Third party water

94

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed
kL/Crores K

70.37

95.33

Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be
selected by the entity

-

-

Into Surface water

-

-

-

0

0

0

0

Parameter

Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i)

No treatment

-	With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii)

Into Groundwater
-

No treatment

0

0

-

With treatment - please specify level of treatment

0

0

(iii) Into Seawater
-

No treatment

0

0

-

With treatment - please specify level of treatment

0

0

(iv) Sent to third parties
-

No treatment

-	With treatment - treated in own STP as per local
pollution control board norms
(v)

0

0

26,996

67,119

0

0

1,19,260

1,37,496

1,46,255

2,04,615

Others
-

No treatment

-	With treatment – STP treated and used for irrigation
and flushing
Total water discharged (in kiloliters)

*The data for the previous year has been revised to reflect the updated information and recalculated figures.

	Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / N) If yes,
name of the external agency.
No.
4.

Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:

	The Company has developed the criteria for measurement and calculation of emissions of relevant categories as per GHG
protocol guidance. The scope 3 emission of significant categories shall be reported from FY 2023-24 onwards.
Parameter

Unit

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year

Total Scope 3 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O,
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) Only
Category I Purchased Goods and Services

Metric tonnes of
CO2 equivalent

10,89,372

9,98,961

Total Scope 3 emissions per Crore H of
turnover

tCO2e/Crores H

223

208

-

-

Total Scope 3 emission intensity
(optional)
–	the relevant metric may be selected by
the entity

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y / N) If
yes, name of the external agency. No
5.	With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along- with prevention and
remediation activities.
Not applicable

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

95

6.	If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions/ effluent discharge/ waste generated, please provide details of the
same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:

7.

Sr.
No.

Initiative undertaken

Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any,
may be provided along-with summary)

Outcome of the initiative

1

Installed new compressor

No

Annual energy saving of 35,868 kWh

2

Drives installed

No

Hourly energy savings of 25kWh

3

Faulty capacitors replaced

No

Power Factor increased from 0.94 to 0.96

4

HVAC optimization

No

Annual energy saving of 96,000 kWh

5

Installation of energy meters

No

Real time energy monitoring

6

Installation of water meters

No

Monitoring water consumption and leakage

7

Installation of 3 rainwater harvest structures

No

Rainwater harvesting

Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/web-link.

	Yes, Business Continuity Planning (BCP) is part of the Company’s organizational resilience program. It is designed to reduce the
impact of a business interruption which could occur due to a range of events ranging from financial, natural causes or man-made
events. It helps Business Unit/Function to respond effectively to the disruption and restore its essential services and mission
critical processes as quickly as possible to ensure timely recovery. It provides a reference tool for the actions required during
or immediately following an emergency or incident that threatens to disrupt Business Unit/Function normal business activities.
The key objectives of this business continuity plan are to:
•	Identify advanced preparations and procedures that will enable Business Unit/Function to respond quickly to disruptive
incidents and ensure continuity of critical business functions.
•

Reduce employee injury or loss of life, and minimize damage and losses.

•

Have documented plans and procedures to ensure effective execution of recovery strategies for critical business functions.

•

Reduce and mitigate disruptions to business operations.

•

Identify teams which would need to respond to incidents and define specific responsibilities.

•

Quantify the impact of incidents in terms of monetary, time, operations, and work force.

•

Recover quickly from an emergency and resume full operations.

The various steps are:
Key Business Processes & Recovery Priorities
	List all the key processes and sub processes of that must be maintained or quickly restored in the event of a disruptive incident.
It provides a high-level description for each of the process and assigns a priority (criticality) ranking to each of them.
Risk assessment
	Risk assessment is one of the main parts of the BCM system. The RA process involves identification, analysis, and evaluation of
all possible risks, hazards, and threats to the operating environment, and defines likelihood/impact of disruptive events caused
by such threats.
	Once the risks have been identified, their impact on different aspects of operations are gauged. Those risks which affect missioncritical operations should be handled first. The following strategy is used to handle risks:
•	
Prevent – Risks which are of high probability with high impact. These risks must be attended first by using mitigation,
prevention or any other strategy to lessen or avoid its impact.
•

Accept – Risks which have low probability and low impact. Nothing specific needs to be done for such risks, but the
organization should be vigilant. If a back-up strategy is put in place for such a risk, all the better

•

Contain – Risks which have a high probability of occurring but having low impact on operations. Use mitigation strategies
to minimize impact of the risk on business operations.

•

Plan – Low probability but high impact events. Though this may be once in a lifetime event, its impact could be disastrous.
The business should plan the steps to be taken if such a risk occurs. Once the steps to be taken are in place, production
can be resumed in the shortest possible time with the least loss.

Business Impact Analysis
	The Business Impact Analysis (BIA) identifies and prioritizes the mission-critical business processes and key functions, disruption
related operational impacts, and the resources (internal and external) required to recover critical operations.

96

Corporate Overview

Statutory Reports

Integrated Report

Financial Statements

	A properly executed BIA will guide in reducing the overall operational and financial impacts, reduce potential losses, and enhance
the business operations.
Business Continuity Strategy
	Business Continuity Plan describes the strategy devised to maintain business continuity in the event of a disruption to operations.
This strategy will be invoked when the primary facility(ies) somehow be damaged or inaccessible, and business critical operations
are interrupted.
Recovery priorities
	The strategy is to recover critical business functions at an alternate site location (if an off-site strategy has been put into effect
to provide recovery service). Critical business functions are the most critical for immediate recovery at the secondary location.
8.	Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
Not available
9.	Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for
environmental impacts.
Not available

PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a
manner that is responsible and transparent
The Company is operating in a dynamic, competitive, and regulated environment, making the operations and compliance
more complex.
The Company is committed to follow the law of the land and has a policy of zero tolerance to non-compliance which is an integral
part of its culture and operating philosophy. To support, streamline and adapt quickly with the ever-changing policy framework, The
Company have key industry memberships as given below.

Essential Indicators
1.

a)

Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations - 4

b)	List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the
entity is a member of/affiliated to.
Sr.
No.

Name of the trade and industry chambers/associations

Reach of trade and industry Chambers/
associations (State/National)

1

Confederation of Indian Industries

State & National

2

Indian Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers’ Association

National

3

Sweden Chamber of Commerce India

National

4

Central Board of Irrigation and Power

National

2.	Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
	Not applicable since the Company has not received any adverse order from regulatory authorities towards issues related to
anti-competitive conduct.
Name of authority

Brief of the case

Corrective action taken

NA

Leadership Indicators
1.

Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
Sr.
No.

Public policy
advocated

1

NA

Frequency of Review
Whether information
Method resorted for such
by Board Annually/ Half
available in public domain
advocacy
yearly/ Quarterly /
(Yes/No)
Others - please specify)

-

-

Web-link
if available

-

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

97

PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
The Company’s Social Policy focuses on society, human rights, children and young workers, freedom of engagement, health and
safety, harassment and disciplinary practices, employee consultation, equality of opportunity working hours, compensation, suppliers,
community involvement and business ethics.
The policy is drawn principally on six sources:
a)

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights

b)

The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights

c)

The International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work

d)

The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises

e)

The Global Sullivan Principles and

f)

The Social Accountability 8000 (SA 8000) standard

The Company has its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy and framework for action along with clear focal areas against
which community engagement projects are taken up predominantly in and around its factory locations.
The details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects are given in response to clause 6 of Leadership indicators.

Essential Indicators
1.	Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
current financial year.
Not applicable
Name and brief details of
project

SIA Notification No. Date of notification

NA

NA

Whether conducted by Results communicated
independent external
in public domain
agency (Yes/No)
(Yes/no)

NA

NA

Relevant web-link

NA

NA

2.	Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being
undertaken by your entity, in the following format:
Not applicable

3.

Sr.
No.

Name of Project for which
R&R is ongoing

State

District

No. of Project Affected
Families (PAFs)

% of PAFs covered
by R&R

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.

	The Company is committed to sustainable and inclusive development of the community’s social capital through active
engagement. Social surveys are organized through NGO partners to receive the grievances of community, if any. CSR projects
are identified and implemented in the following focus areas
•

Promote gender equality and empowering of women in engineering workforce.

•

Endorse Education, employability & healthcare.

•	Social impact projects to collaborate with communities to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access to
electricity in the country, especially in rural areas for its development.

4.

•

Support national disaster management and other government initiatives.

•

Aid in sustainable development goals.

Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

Directly sourced from MSMEs/small producers

18%

-

Directly from within India

86%

-

Particulars

* Data from previous year not included as information has been sourced and calculated from the current financial year only.

98

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

5.	Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers
employed on a permanent or non-permanent/on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total
wage cost.
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year*

14%

-

Semi-urban

5%

-

Urban

74%

-

Metropolitan

7%

-

Pariculars

Rural

(Place to be categorized as per RBI Classification System - rural/ semi-urban/ urban/ metropolitan)
* Data from previous year not included as information has been sourced and calculated from the current financial year only.

Leadership Indicators
1.	Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Not applicable
Details of negative social impact identified

Corrective action taken

Nil

NA

2.	Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts
as identified by government bodies:

3.

Sr.
No.

State

Aspirational district

Amount spent
(K in million)

1

Karnataka

Bengaluru, Mandya, Chickballapur, Chamrajnagar

8.70

2

Gujarat

Vadodara, Anand

7.76

3

Tamil Nadu

Chennai

8.27

4

Telangana

Warangal

3.40

5

Uttarakhand

Roorkee

3.60

6

West Bengal

Kharagpur

4.10

7

Delhi

Delhi

0.44

8

Assam

Bongaigaon

0.29

9

Haryana

Gurugram

0.24

(a)	Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising
marginalized/vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) – No
(b)

From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure? – Not Applicable

(c)

What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? – Not Applicable

4.	Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in
the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Not applicable
Sr.
No.

Intellectual property based on
traditional knowledge

Owned/Acquired
(Yes/No)

Benefit shared
(Yes/No)

Basis of calculating
benefit share

5.	Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved
Not applicable
Name of authority

Brief of the case

Corrective action taken

NA

NA

NA

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

99

6.

Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
Sr.
No.

CSR project

No of persons
benefitted from CSR
projects

% of beneficiaries
from vulnerable and
marginalized groups*

1

Women in Manufacturing, Engineering – empowering Girl students

200

100%

2

Maintenance of Medical equipment funded at Mysuru, Maneja Savli & Halol

5000+

100%

3

Healthcare project support

50000+

100%

4

Green initiative - Development of traffic islands at Vadodara

General Public in the city

100%

5

Urban afforestation - 2 Green cover development under Vadodara Municipal
Corporation

General Public in the city

100%

General Public in the city

100%

6

Development & maintenance of Green cover at National Highway Traffic median

7

‘Smart Electric Grid - Laboratory for quality education and skill development at NIT 10000+
Warangal

100%

8

“Collaborative Monitoring and Analytics Center” Smart & Sustainable Community Connecting industry, innovation and infrastructure at IIT Roorkee

5000+

100%

9

‘Sustainable Public Mobility - Piloting societal adaptation of clean energy in public
mobility at IIT Madras

5000+

100%

10

‘Sustainable Public Mobility - Piloting societal adaptation of clean energy in public
mobility at IIT Madras ‘Energy Simulation Lab for Diverse Sources Integration in
Power Systems’ at IIT Kharagpur

1000+

100%

11

‘Lab for Modeling and Simulation of Electric Energy Assets’ at BVM College of
Engineering

1000+

100%

* CSR initiatives focus on the well-being of marginalized communities by emphasizing education and healthcare support. Additionally, these
efforts extend to enhancing public spaces for universal accessibility and providing infrastructure to educational institutions that benefits the
entire community.

PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible
manner
Essential Indicators
1.

Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.

	The Company customers have following channels through which complaints can be sent and following mechanism is in place
to respond to the same:
i)

Customers can place the complaints through:

		a)
		

Contact Center

b)	Through e-mail/Letter to the concerned area sales office or project management/order handling or through the EPC/
OEM/ Distributor from which they have purchased the finished product.

ii)	Upon receipt of the complaint, the sales team or the factory team who have received the complaint, will raise in the system
thru Customer compliant resolution process (CCRP) tool. The progress of these CCRP tickets is tracked monthly.
iii)

Customers if not satisfied with pace of resolution or the resolution itself, can also request for an escalation matrix.

iv)	Transactional NPS (Net Promoter Score) is used to track the customer feedback and analyzed to take corrective action
if necessary.
v)

High severity customers complaints are monitored on monthly basis at management meetings.

vi)

Feedback from Customer visits are monitored at various steering committee levels.

2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry
information about:
The product manual provides information on Environmental and social parameters wherever it is relevant to the product.
	For products installed in the field, the Company can offer lifecycle management solutions through its Service operations. This
will support decision-making for customers to manage and maintain their assets, including when it is time for upgrades and
decommissioning of assets. The Company is expanding its solutions for product end-of-life management, which have already
contributed to large amounts of recycled material in certain markets. One of the key pillars of its service strategy is extending
the life of its customers’ electrical infrastructure.
Particulars

100

As a percentage of total turnover

Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product

100%

Safe and responsible usage

100%

Recycling and/or safe disposal

100%

Corporate Overview

3.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following
Particulars

Data privacy
Advertising
Cyber-security
Delivery of essential services
Restrictive trade practices
Unfair trade practices
Other

4.

Integrated Report

April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
Current Financial Year
Received during
the year

Pending resolution
at end of year

None
None
None
None
None
None

None
None
None
None
None
None

Remarks

Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Previous Financial Year
Received during
the year

Pending resolution
at end of year

None
None
None
None
None
None

Remarks

None
None
None
None
None
None

Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil

Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Particulars

Number

Reason for recall

NIL
NIL

NA
NA

Voluntary recalls
Forced recalls

5.	Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available,
provide a web-link of the policy.
Yes, the link is as follows - https://www.hitachienergy.com/offering/solutions/cybersecurity
The Company is certified for ISO/IEC: 27001:2013 for information security management systems.
6.	Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls;
penalty/ action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/ services.
None
7.

Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a)

Number of instances of data breaches None

b)

Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers NA

c)

Impact, if any, of the data breaches NA

Leadership Indicators
1.	Channels/platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web-link,
if available).
Yes, Web-link is as: https://www.hitachienergy.com/offering
2.

Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
The Company give the following to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
Product operational Manual
Customer training on product, if required
Factory Acceptance Test (FAT) confirmation
On site commissioning support
On-site Service support to the customer.

3.

Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.

	In case of disruption/discontinuation of essential services the Company will ensure communication of the same through the
Company website and press releases.
4.	Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws?
(Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief.
No
5. 	Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/services
of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
	Yes. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey methodology is adopted to understand how the Company is perceived by its
customers. The surveys are administered online through a web-based application at planned interval.
6.

Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a)

Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact – None

b)

Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers – Not Applicable
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

101

Annexure I

Links to the Company Policies and
Programs’ section
Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Policy
https://publisher.hitachienergy.com/preview?DocumentID=8DBR001735&LanguageCode=en&DocumentPartId=&Action=launch
Social Policy
https://publisher.hitachienergy.com/preview?DocumentID=8DBR001736&LanguageCode=en&DocumentPartId=&Action=launch
Human Rights Policy
https://publisher.hitachienergy.com/preview?DocumentID=7HAA00003&LanguageCode=en&DocumentPartId=&Action=launch
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (Company)
https://publisher.hitachienergy.com/preview?DocumentID=8DBR000673&LanguageCode=en&DocumentPartId=&Action=launch
Sexual harassment of women at the workplace Policy (Company)
https://publisher.hitachienergy.com/preview?DocumentID=8DBR000676&LanguageCode=en&DocumentPartId=&Action=launch
Code of Conduct (Company)
https://www.hitachienergy.com/about-us/integrity/standards/code-of-conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct (Hitachi Energy Group)
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/about-us/supplying/supplier-code-of-conduct
Sustainability commitment
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/sustainability/sustainability-overview#our-commitment
Corporate Governance (Company):
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance
Integrity Program (Hitachi Energy Group):
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/about-us/integrity
Hitachi Energy Whistleblower - Protection Policy (Company):
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/about-us/integrity/reporting-channels/whistleblower-protection-policy
Vulnerability Disclosure Policy:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/products-and-solutions/cybersecurity/vulnerability-disclosure-policy
Privacy Policy:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/privacy-policy
Equal Opportunity Policy:
https://xecm.hitachienergy.com/otcs/llisapi.dll/8DA A5152964_en%20Equal%20Oppor tunity%20Policy%20%2D%20
India?func=uniquenumberbox.oneviewopen&oneviewID=221731293&vernum=12&verType=PDF

102

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Notice to the Members
NOTICE is hereby given that the FIFTH ANNUAL GENERAL
MEETING (“AGM”) of the Members of Hitachi Energy India Limited
(“the Company”) will be held on Wednesday, August 21, 2024, at
11:00 a.m. (IST) at Sheraton Grand Bangalore Hotel at Brigade
Gateway, 26/1 Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar,
Bengaluru – 560 055 to transact the following businesses:

Item No. 3 – Re-appointment of Mr. Achim Michael Braun
(DIN: 08596097), who retires by rotation at this Annual
General Meeting and being eligible, offers himself for
re‑appointment:

Ordinary Businesses:

“RESOLVED THAT Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN: 08596097),
who retires by rotation and being eligible, offers himself for reappointment, be and is hereby re-appointed as a Director of the
Company.”

Item No. 1 – Adoption of Financial Statements and Reports
of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon for the
financial year ended March 31, 2024:

To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s)
the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:

To receive, consider and adopt the financial statements of the
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, including
(i) the Audited Balance Sheet; (ii) Statement of Profit & Loss
Account and (iii) the Cash Flow Statement for the year ended
on that date together with (iv) the Reports of Board of Directors
and the Auditors thereon:

Special Business:

To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s)
the following Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:

“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 148
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act,
2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014,
as amended from time to time, the payment of remuneration of
C 20,75,000/– (Rupees Twenty Lakhs and Seventy-Five Thousand
only) per annum plus applicable taxes and reimbursement of
out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred during the course of
audit to M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost Accountants
(Firm Registration No. 100392) appointed as Cost Auditors, by
the Board of Directors of the Company to conduct the audit of
the cost records of the Company for the financial year ending
March 31, 2025, be and is hereby approved.

“RESOLVED THAT the Audited Financial Statements of the
Company as at March 31, 2024, Audited Statement of Profit &
Loss Account and Cash Flow Statement for the financial year
ended March 31, 2024, the statement of changes in equity, if any,
explanatory notes annexed to or forming part of, the documents
referred above and the report of the Board of Directors and the
Auditors attached thereto, be and are hereby received, approved
and adopted.”
Item No. 2 – Declaration of Dividend:
To declare a dividend on Equity Shares of C 4.00 per Equity Share
(200%) of face value of C 2.00 each for the financial year ended
March 31, 2024.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s)
the following Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT a final dividend at the rate of C 4.00 (Rupees
Four only) per equity share of C 2.00 (Rupees Two only) each
fully paid up of the Company, be and is hereby declared for the
financial year ended March 31, 2024 and that the same be paid
as recommended by the Board of Directors of the Company for
the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors and/or
any of the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company for the time
being, be and are hereby authorized severally to do all such acts,
deeds and things as the Board may, in its absolute discretion,
consider necessary, expedient or desirable in order to give effect
to this Resolution.”

Item No. 4 – Approval of remuneration payable to the Cost
Auditors of the Company for the financial year 2024-25:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s)
the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:

RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company (including its Committee thereof), be and are hereby
authorized to do all such acts and take all such steps as may be
necessary, proper or expedient to give effect to this Resolution.”
Item No. 5 – Approval of Material Related Party
Transactions with Hitachi Energy Sweden AB for the
financial year 2024-25:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s)
the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Regulation 23(4) and other
applicable Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), the applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’), if any, read with
related rules, if any, each as amended from time to time and the
policy on Related Party Transaction(s) of Hitachi Energy India
Limited (‘the Company’) and as per the recommendation/

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

103

approval of the Audit Committee and/or the Board of Directors
of the Company, the approval of the Members of the Company
be and is hereby accorded to the Company for contract(s)/
arrangement(s)/ transaction(s) (whether by way of an individual
transaction or transactions taken together or series of
transactions or otherwise) entered/to be entered into, as detailed
in the explanatory statement annexed to this notice, with Hitachi
Energy Sweden AB (‘HE Sweden’), a fellow subsidiary of the
Company and accordingly a related party under Regulation
2(1)(zb) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, on such terms and
conditions as may be agreed between the Company and HE
Sweden, for an aggregate value of up to C 1,000 Crores during
financial year 2024-25 (i.e., April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025),
in respect of sale or purchase of product(s), component(s),
system(s), spares and/or rendering or receipt of services under
multiple orders, at arm’s length and in the ordinary course of
business of the Company.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company (including any Committees thereof) be and is hereby
authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, and
to finalize the terms and conditions as may be considered
necessary, expedient or desirable, in its absolute discretion and
to take all such steps as may be required in this connection
including finalizing and executing necessary contract(s),
arrangement(s), agreement(s) and such other documents as
may be required, seeking all necessary approvals in order to
give effect to this resolution, for and on behalf of the Company
and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts
whatsoever that may arise and to take all such decisions with
regard to the powers conferred herein.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company be and are hereby authorized to delegate all or any
of the powers conferred on it to the Managing Director and
CEO or Chief Financial Officer or the Company Secretary or
any other Officer(s), or Authorized Representative(s) of the
Company, to do all such acts and take such steps, as may
be considered necessary or expedient, to give effect to the
aforesaid Resolution.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT all actions taken by the Board of
Directors of the Company (including any Committees thereof) in
connection with any matter referred to or contemplated in this
resolution, be and are hereby approved, ratified and confirmed
in all respects.”
Item No. 6 – Approval of Material Related Party
Transactions with Hitachi Energy Australia Pty. Ltd. for
the financial year 2024-25:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s)
the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Regulation 23(4) and other
applicable Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), the applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’), if any, read with
related rules, if any, each as amended from time to time and
the policy on Related Party Transaction(s) of Hitachi Energy
India Limited (‘the Company’) and as per the recommendation/
approval of the Audit Committee and/or the Board of

104

Directors of the Company, the approval of the Members of
the Company be and is hereby accorded to the Company for
contract(s)/ arrangement(s)/ transaction(s) (whether by way
of an individual transaction or transactions taken together or
series of transactions or otherwise) entered / to be entered
into, as detailed in the explanatory statement annexed to this
notice, with Hitachi Energy Australia Pty Ltd. (‘HE Australia’),
a fellow subsidiary of the Company and accordingly a related
party under Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI Listing Regulations,
on such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the
Company and HE Australia, for an aggregate value of up to
C 1,000 Crores during financial year 2024-25 (i.e., April 01, 2024
to March 31, 2025), in respect of sale or purchase of product(s),
component(s), system(s), spares and/or rendering or receipt
of services under multiple orders, at arm’s length and in the
ordinary course of business of the Company.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company (including any Committees thereof) be and is hereby
authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, and
to finalize the terms and conditions as may be considered
necessary, expedient or desirable, in its absolute discretion and
to take all such steps as may be required in this connection
including finalizing and executing necessary contract(s),
arrangement(s), agreement(s) and such other documents as
may be required, seeking all necessary approvals in order to
give effect to this resolution, for and on behalf of the Company
and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts
whatsoever that may arise and to take all such decisions with
regard to the powers conferred herein.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company be and are hereby authorized to delegate all or any
of the powers conferred on it to the Managing Director and
CEO or Chief Financial Officer or the Company Secretary or
any other Officer(s), or Authorized Representative(s) of the
Company, to do all such acts and take such steps, as may
be considered necessary or expedient, to give effect to the
aforesaid Resolution.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT all actions taken by the Board of
Directors of the Company (including any Committees thereof) in
connection with any matter referred to or contemplated in this
resolution, be and are hereby approved, ratified and confirmed
in all respects.”
Item No. 7 – Approval of Material Related Party
Transactions with Hitachi Energy Ltd., Switzerland for
the financial year 2024-25:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s)
the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Regulation 23(4) and other
applicable Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), the applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’), if any, read with
related rules, if any, each as amended from time to time and
the policy on Related Party Transaction(s) of Hitachi Energy
India Limited (‘the Company’) and as per the recommendation/
approval of the Audit Committee and/or the Board of Directors
of the Company, the approval of the Members of the Company

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

be and is hereby accorded to the Company for contract(s)/
arrangement(s)/ transaction(s) (whether by way of an individual
transaction or transactions taken together or series of
transactions or otherwise) entered / to be entered into, as detailed
in the explanatory statement annexed to this notice, with Hitachi
Energy Ltd., Switzerland (‘HE Switzerland’), a Holding Company
and accordingly a related party under Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the
SEBI Listing Regulations, on such terms and conditions as may
be agreed between the Company and HE Switzerland, for an
aggregate value of up to C 1,200 Crores during financial year
2024-25 (i.e., April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025), in respect of
sale or purchase of product(s), component(s), system(s), spares
and/or rendering or receipt of services (including royalty &
technology payments) under multiple orders, at arm’s length
and in the ordinary course of business of the Company.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company (including any Committees thereof) be and is hereby
authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, and
to finalize the terms and conditions as may be considered
necessary, expedient or desirable, in its absolute discretion and
to take all such steps as may be required in this connection
including finalizing and executing necessary contract(s),
arrangement(s), agreement(s) and such other documents as
may be required, seeking all necessary approvals in order to
give effect to this resolution, for and on behalf of the Company
and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts
whatsoever that may arise and to take all such decisions with
regard to the powers conferred herein.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company be and are hereby authorized to delegate all or any
of the powers conferred on it to the Managing Director and
CEO or Chief Financial Officer or the Company Secretary or
any other Officer(s), or Authorized Representative(s) of the
Company, to do all such acts and take such steps, as may
be considered necessary or expedient, to give effect to the
aforesaid Resolution.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT all actions taken by the Board of
Directors of the Company (including any Committees thereof) in
connection with any matter referred to or contemplated in this
resolution, be and are hereby approved, ratified and confirmed
in all respects.”
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024
Registered Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru – 560 092
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 68473700

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Notes:
1.	A Statement setting out material facts pursuant to the
provisions of Section 102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013
(the “Act”) in respect of special businesses set out at Item
Nos. 4 to 7 of the Notice is annexed hereto. Further, the
information pursuant to Regulation 36 of the SEBI (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015 read with the applicable provisions of Secretarial
Standards-2 issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries
of India with respect to Item No. 3 is also appended hereto.
2.	A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE AT THE
MEETING IS ENTITLED TO APPOINT ONE OR MORE
PROXIES TO ATTEND AND VOTE INSTEAD OF HIMSELF/
HERSELF AND A PROXY NEED NOT BE A MEMBER
OF THE COMPANY. PROXIES IN ORDER TO BE
EFFECTIVE MUST BE DULY FILLED, STAMPED, SIGNED
AND SHOULD BE DEPOSITED AT THE COMPANY’S
REGISTERED OFFICE NOT LATER THAN FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS BEFORE THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE
MEETING. PROXIES SUBMITTED ON BEHALF OF LIMITED
COMPANIES, SOCIETIES, PARTNERSHIP FIRMS, ETC.,
MUST BE SUPPORTED BY APPROPRIATE RESOLUTION
/AUTHORITY AS APPLICABLE, ISSUED ON BEHALF OF
THE APPOINTING ORGANIZATION. A PERSON CAN ACT
AS PROXY ON BEHALF OF MEMBERS NOT EXCEEDING
FIFTY (50) AND HOLDING IN THE AGGREGATE NOT
MORE THAN 10% OF THE TOTAL SHARE CAPITAL OF
THE COMPANY CARRYING VOTING RIGHTS. IF A PROXY
IS APPOINTED FOR MORE THAN FIFTY MEMBERS,
HE/ SHE SHALL CHOOSE ANY FIFTY MEMBERS AND
CONFIRM THE SAME TO THE COMPANY BEFORE
THE COMMENCEMENT OF PERIOD SPECIFIED FOR
INSPECTION OF PROXY LODGED. IN CASE THE PROXY
FAILS TO DO SO, THE COMPANY SHALL CONSIDER
ONLY THE FIRST FIFTY PROXIES RECEIVED AS VALID.
IN CASE A PROXY IS PROPOSED TO BE APPOINTED BY
A MEMBER HOLDING MORE THAN 10% OF THE TOTAL
SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY CARRYING VOTING
RIGHTS, THEN SUCH PROXY SHALL NOT ACT AS A
PROXY FOR ANY OTHER PERSON OR MEMBER. THE
PROXY-HOLDER SHALL PROVE HIS IDENTITY AT THE
TIME OF ATTENDING THE MEETING. AN INSTRUMENT
OF PROXY DULY FILLED, STAMPED AND SIGNED IS
VALID ONLY FOR THIS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
INCLUDING ANY ADJOURNMENT THEREOF.
	
IN CASE OF JOINT HOLDERS ATTENDING THE
MEETING, ONLY SUCH JOINT HOLDER WHO IS HIGHER
IN THE ORDER OF NAMES WILL BE ENTITLED TO VOTE.
3.	During the period beginning 24 hours before the time fixed
for the commencement of the Meeting and ending with
conclusion of the Meeting, a Member can inspect the
proxies lodged at any time during business hours of the
Company, provided that not less than three days of notice
in writing is given to the Company.
4.	Members/ Proxies/ Representatives are requested to bring
the attendance slip, annexed herewith for attending the
meeting, duly completed and signed mentioning therein
details of their DP ID and Client ID / Folio No.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

105

5.	
Only Members/ Proxies/ Representatives/ Invitees of
the Company are permitted to attend the Meeting at the
venue. Attendance of any other individuals, including
relatives and acquaintances accompanying Members, is
strictly prohibited.
6.	
The Integrated Annual Report of the Company for the year
ended March 31, 2024, along with Notice including, process
and manner of remote e-voting, Attendance Slip and Proxy
form are being sent by e-mail to those Members who have
registered their e-mail address with Company’s Registrar and
Share Transfer Agents viz; KFin Technologies Limited (‘‘KFin’’)
(‘‘RTA’’) or with their respective Depository Participant(s)
(‘‘DP’’). Members who are desirous of obtaining the
physical copy of the Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
along with Notice of the AGM are requested to send an
e-mail, mentioning their Folio number / DP ID and Client
ID to the Company’s e-mail id at investors@hitachienergy.
com
	
The AGM notice and Integrated Annual Report of the
Company are made available on the Company’s website
at https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/
general-meetings#annual-report and also on the website
of the Stock Exchanges where the shares of the Company
have been listed viz., BSE Limited – https://www.bseindia.
com/ and National Stock Exchange of India Limited –
www.nseindia.com and on the website of KFin at https://
evoting.kfintech.com.	
	For convenience of Members, route map of the venue of
the AGM forms part of this Integrated Annual Report for
the financial year 2023-24.
7.	
Members are encouraged to regularly check the
Company’s website viz; Annual General Meeting section
for important updates regarding safety measures, security
protocols, logistics and other important notifications
related to the upcoming AGM to be held at the registered
office of the Company.
8.	The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
and their shareholding maintained under Section 170
of the Act and Register of Contracts or arrangements
in which directors are interested maintained under
Section 189 of the Act and relevant documents referred
to in this Notice of AGM and explanatory statement, will
be available for inspection by the Members during the
AGM. All documents referred to in the Notice will also be
available for electronic inspection without any fee by the
Members on all working days (except Saturdays, Sundays
and Public Holidays) between 10:00 a.m. (IST) to 5:00 p.m.
(IST) from the date of circulation of this Notice up to the
date of AGM, i.e., Wednesday, August 21, 2024. Members
seeking to inspect such documents can send an e-mail in
advance to investors@hitachienergy.com
9.	The Register of Members and the Share Transfer Books of
the Company will remain closed from Thursday, August 15,
2024 to Wednesday, August 21, 2024 (both days inclusive)
for ascertaining entitlement of Members eligible to receive
the dividend if declared in the meeting.

106

10.	The dividend as recommended by the Board of Directors
of the Company, if declared by the Members at the AGM,
will be paid after applicable deduction of tax on and from
Friday, August 23, 2024, to those Members:
a)	whose names appear as Beneficial Owners as at the
end of business hours on Wednesday, August 14,
2024, in the list of Beneficial Owners to be furnished
by National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) in
respect of shares held in dematerialized form; and
b)	whose names appear as Members in the Register
of Members of the Company as at the end of the
business hours on Wednesday, August 14, 2024,
after giving effect to valid request(s) received for
transmission/ transposition of shares, if any.

11.	
ADDITIONAL FACILITY TO PARTICIPATE IN
THE AGM THROUGH VIRTUAL MEANS
	Your Company is pleased to provide the facility of one-way
live webcast of the proceedings of the AGM on Wednesday,
August 21, 2024 from 11:00 a.m. IST onwards. Members
who are entitled to participate in the AGM can view the
proceeding of AGM by logging on the e-voting website
of KFin at https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ using their
secure login credentials. On successful login shareholders
will reach at the link “live streaming” from where you can
ONLY VIEW the proceeding of our 5th AGM. Members are
encouraged to use this facility of webcast.
	The Company aims to provide an additional opportunity
for participation of members who are unable to attend the
AGM in person. Such registered members will be allowed
to participate in the AGM through a video conferencing/
other audio visual means platform and express their views
or ask questions. Shareholders interested in availing this
facility should send their request in advance to investors@
hitachienergy.com, including their name, demat account
number/folio number, email id, and mobile number. The
deadline for requesting participation is August 18, 2024,
at 5:00 p.m. (IST). The Company or its RTA officials will
contact the selected members to complete the registration
process. It may be noted that the attendance of the
members participating through video conferencing/ other
audio visual means shall not be counted for the purpose
of quorum.
12.	Members who are attending the meeting in person and
would like to express their views/have questions, may
register themselves as a speaker by sending their request
in advance mentioning their name, demat account
number/ folio number, e-mail id, mobile number at
investors@hitachienergy.com up to August 18, 2024 (5:00
p.m. IST). The Company reserves the right to restrict the
number of speakers depending on the availability of time for
the AGM. Members are requested to share their questions if
any in advance on investors@hitachienergy.com
	In case of any query and/or help, in respect of attending
AGM kindly contact the Company at investors@
hitachienergy.com, or Ms. Shobha Anand, Deputy Vice

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

President, KFin at Selenium, Tower B, Plot No. 31-32,
Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad,
Telangana – 500 032 or at the email ID evoting@kfintech.com
or on phone No.: 040-6716 2222 or call KFin’s toll free No.:
1800-3094-001 for any further clarifications.
13.	The Board of Directors of the Company has recommended
a dividend of C 4.00 per share of C 2.00 fully paid for the
financial year ended March 31, 2024. Also, this being
the fifth financial year of the Company, there was no
requirement to transfer any dividends not encashed or
remaining unclaimed for a period of 7 (seven) years from
the date of transfer to the Company’s Unpaid Dividend
Account, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund
(“IEPF”), established under Section 125 of the Companies
Act, 2013. Further, there was no requirement to transfer all
shares on which dividend has not been paid or claimed
for seven consecutive years or more to IEPF Authority
as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. As the
Company was incorporated on February 19, 2019, it may
be noted that there is no Unclaimed Dividend lying in
IEPF Account.
	
Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement (Demerger),
1,07,421 Equity shares were allotted directly to the IEPF
account. Further, 1,05,423 Equity shares were still in IEPF
account as on August 10, 2023, being the record date for
FY 2022-23 final dividend and accordingly, a dividend of
C 3,55,445.20 (after deduction of taxes) was also paid and
deposited directly into the IEPF account after 4th AGM. The
concerned Members/claimants may claim the shares and
corresponding dividend amount (declared for FY 2022-23)
by making an application to IEPF Authority in Form IEPF 5
(available on www.iepf.gov.in) along with requisite fee and
documents as decided/prescribed by it from time to time.
	It is in the Member’s interest to claim any un-encashed
dividends and for future, opt for Electronic Clearing Service,
so that dividends paid by the Company are credited to the
Member’s account on time.
	The details of the unclaimed dividend including fractional
shares amount transferred directly into IEPF account and
Equity shares directly allotted to IEPF pursuant to Scheme
of Demerger are available on the Company’s website at
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/
shareholder-information#iepf. Members are requested to
contact KFin Technologies Limited, Unit: Hitachi Energy
India Limited, Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial
District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Serilingampally
Mandal, Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana, the Registrar
and Share Transfer Agents of the Company, to claim the
unclaimed/ unpaid dividends, aforementioned fractional
shares sold amount and equity shares.
Due dates for transfer to IEPF are as under:
Type

Declaration /
Sale Date

Due Date

Transfer of unclaimed Fractional July 27, 2020 September 30,
shares amount (arising of
2027
fractional shares sold in the
Financial Year January to
December 2020)

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Transfer of unclaimed/unpaid May 27, 2021 July 31, 2028
dividends and corresponding
Equity shares for the Financial
Year January to December 2020
Transfer of unclaimed/unpaid July 22, 2022 September 26,
dividends and corresponding
2029
Equity shares for the Financial
Period January 2021 to March
2022
Transfer of unclaimed/unpaid August 17,
dividends and corresponding 2023
Equity shares for the Financial
Year April, 2022 to March 2023

October 22,
2030

14.	Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No.
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated
January 25, 2022 has mandated the Listed Companies to
issue securities in demat form only while processing service
requests viz. Issue of duplicate securities certificate; claim
from Unclaimed Suspense Account; Renewal/Exchange
of securities certificate; Endorsement; Sub-division/
Splitting of securities certificate; Consolidation of securities
certificates/ folios; Transmission and Transposition.
	Accordingly, Shareholders are requested to make service
requests by submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR–4,
the format of which is available on the Company’s website
under the weblink at https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/
en/investor-relations#-p-revised-process-for-updationof-details-for-physical-sharehol. It may be noted that any
service request can be processed only after the folio is
KYC compliant. SEBI vide its notification dated January
24, 2022, has mandated that all requests for transfer
of securities including transmission and transposition
requests shall be processed only in dematerialized form.
In view of the same and to eliminate all risks associated
with physical shares and avail various benefits of
dematerialization, Members are advised to dematerialize
the shares held by them in physical form. Members can
contact the Company or RTA, for assistance in this regard.
15.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)
has mandated the submission of Permanent Account
Number (PAN) by every participant in securities market.
Members holding shares in Dematerialized form are,
therefore requested to submit their PAN to the Depository
Participant(s) with whom they are maintaining their
Dematerialized accounts. Members holding shares in
physical form can submit their PAN details to the Registrar
and Transfer Agent.
16.	SEBI has made it mandatory for all companies to use the
bank account details furnished by the Depositories and the
bank account details maintained by the RTA for payment
of dividend to Members electronically. The Company has
extended the facility of electronic credit of dividend directly
to the respective bank accounts of the Member(s) through
the Electronic Clearing Service (ECS)/ National Electronic
Clearing Service (NECS)/ National Electronic Fund
Transfer (NEFT)/ Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)/
Direct Credit, etc. As directed by SEBI, Members holding
shares in physical form are requested to submit particulars
of their bank account in Form ISR 1 along with the original

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

107

cancelled cheque bearing the name of the Member to KFin/
Company to update their bank account details. Members
holding shares in demat form are requested to update
their bank account details with their respective Depository
Participant(s) (“DP”). The Company or KFin cannot act on
any request received directly from the Members holding
shares in demat form for any change of bank particulars.
Such changes are to be intimated only to the Depository
Participant(s) of the Members. Further instructions, if any,
already given by them in respect of shares held in physical
form will not be automatically applicable to shares held
in the electronic mode. Shareholders are requested to
ensure that their bank account details in their respective
demat accounts are updated, to enable the Company to
provide timely credit of dividend in their bank accounts.
17.	Members holding shares in physical form, whose folio(s)
lack PAN, Choice of Nomination, Contact Details, Mobile
Number, Bank Account Details, or updated Specimen
Signature, will only be eligible for any payment, including
dividends, interest, or redemption, through electronic
mode from April 01, 2024, as per SEBI directives.
Therefore, Members holding shares in physical form are
requested to update the mentioned details by completing
the appropriate forms with the RTA by Wednesday, August
14, 2024, to ensure receipt of dividends.
18.	Procedure to be followed by the Members for updation of
bank account mandate for receipt of dividend:
I.	Send a request to KFin at einward.ris@kfintech.com
by providing the following details along with form
ISR 1:
		

a)

Folio No., Name of the Member/s;

		

b)	Name and Branch of the Bank in which you wish
to receive the dividend;

		

c)

		

d)	
Bank Account Number allotted by their bank
after implementation of Core Banking Solutions;

		

e)

9 digit MICR Code Number; and

		

f)

11 digit IFSC Code

Bank Account type;

II.	
Along with the request, attach the scanned copy
of Share Certificate (front and back), PAN (selfattested scanned copy of PAN card), scanned
copy of cancelled cheque bearing the name of the
first Shareholder.
19.	Members are requested to note that, in order to avoid any
loss/ interception in postal transit and also to get prompt
credit of dividend through NECS / ECS they should submit
their NECS/ECS details to the Company’s RTA. The
requisite NECS/ECS application form can be obtained
from the Company’s RTA. Alternatively, Members may
provide details of their bank account quoting their folio
numbers, to the Company’s RTA to enable them to print
such details on the dividend warrants.
20.	The Members may send their complaints/queries including
clarification on Integrated Annual Report 2023-24, if any to
the Company’s RTA at e-mail id: einward.ris@kfintech.com

108

or to the Company’s designated/exclusive e-mail id:
investors@hitachienergy.com
21.	Members can avail of the facility of nomination in respect
of shares held by them in physical form pursuant to the
provisions of Section 72 of the Act and Rule 19(1) of the
Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014.
Members desiring to avail of this facility may send their
nomination in the prescribed Form No. SH-13 duly filled in
to KFin at the aforementioned address. Members holding
shares in electronic form may contact their respective DP
for availing this facility.
22.	
Members may kindly note that in accordance with
SEBI Circular reference SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/
CIR/2023/131 dated July 31, 2023, the Company has
registered on the newly launched SMART ODR Portal
(Securities Market Approach for Resolution through
Online Disputes Resolution Portal). This platform aims to
enhance investor grievance resolution by providing access
to Online Dispute Resolution Institutions for addressing
complaints. Members can access the SMART ODR Portal
via the following link: https://smartodr.in/login. Members
may feel free to utilize this online conciliation and/or
arbitration facility, as outlined in the circular, to resolve any
outstanding disputes between Members and the Company
(including RTA).
23.	As per Regulation 40 of the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations 2015, (‘‘Listing Regulations’’) as amended,
securities of listed companies can be transferred only in
dematerialised form with effect from April 01, 2019, except
in case of transmission or transposition of securities.
Further, SEBI vide its Master Circular dated May 17,
2023, has mandated that securities shall be issued only
in dematerialised mode while processing duplicate/
unclaimed suspense/ renewal/ exchange/ endorsement/
sub-division/ consolidation/ transmission/ transposition
service requests received from physical securities holders.
In view of the above and to eliminate risk associated
with physical shares and to avail various benefits of
dematerialisation, Members are advised to dematerialize
their shares held in physical form.
	Members are accordingly requested to get in touch with
any Depository Participant(s) having registration with
SEBI to open a Demat account or alternatively, contact
the nearest branch of KFin to seek guidance in the
demat procedure. Members may also visit website of
depositories viz. National Securities Depository Limited
at https://nsdl.co.in/faqs/faq.php or Central Depository
Services (India) Limited at https://www.cdslindia.com/
investors/open-demat.html for further understanding the
demat procedure.
24.	Effective April 1, 2020, dividend income is taxable in the
hands of shareholders. Hence the Company is required to
deduct tax at source (‘‘TDS’’) from the amount of dividend
paid to shareholders at the prescribed rates. A Resident
individual shareholder with PAN and who is not liable to
pay income tax can submit a yearly declaration in Form
No. 15G/15H, to avail the benefit of non-deduction of
tax at source by e-mail to einward.ris@kfintech.com on

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

or before Friday, August 9, 2024. Further no tax shall be
deducted on the dividend payable to a resident individual
shareholder if the total amount of dividend to be received
from the Company during the Financial Year 2024-25 does
not exceed C 5,000/-. Shareholders may note that in case
PAN is not updated with the Depository Participant(s)/
Registrar of the Company, the tax will be deducted at a
higher rate of 20%. Further, if the PAN is not as per the
database of the Income-tax Portal or it is not linked with
the Aadhar (for those who are required to link to the PAN
with Aadhar as per the provisions of the Act), it would be
considered as inoperative PAN and higher tax rate of 20%
would be deducted.
	Non-resident shareholders can avail beneficial tax rates
under Double Tax Avoidance Agreement (‘‘DTAA’’) i.e.
tax treaty between India and their country of residence.
Non-resident shareholders are required to provide
details on applicability of beneficial tax rates and provide
following documents:
-	Copy of PAN card, if any, allotted by Indian Income
Tax Authorities duly self-attested by the member
-	Copy of Tax Residency Certificate (‘‘TRC’’) for the
FY 2023-24 obtained from the revenue authorities
of country of tax residence duly self-attested by
the member
-	Online Self Declaration in Form 10-F using https://
eportal.incometax.gov.in/
-

No-PE [permanent establishment] certificate

-	Self-Declaration of beneficial ownership by the nonresident shareholder
-	
Lower withholding Tax certificate, if any, obtained
from the Indian Tax Authorities
	The members/shareholders are required to provide above
documents/declarations by sending an E-mail to einward.
ris@kfintech.com on or before Friday, August 09, 2024. The
Shareholders in the category of Mutual Funds are required
to submit their respective SEBI Registration Certificates
to einward.ris@kfintech.com on or before Friday, August
09, 2024. The aforesaid documents are subject to
verification by the Company and in case of ambiguity, the
Company reserves its right to deduct the TDS as per the
provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961. In case of Foreign
Institutional Investors / Foreign Portfolio Investors tax will
be deducted under Section 196D of the Income Tax Act
@20% plus applicable Surcharge and Cess or at the rate
as per the relevant DTAA, whichever is beneficial. Further,
communication on Tax Deduction is also being sent
separately to the shareholders through electronic mode to
those shareholders whose email ID’s are registered with
the Company / Depository Participant(s). Shareholders are
requested to refer the aforesaid communication in addition
to the above notes for detailed process and clarity.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

25. E-Voting:
1.	In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of
the Act, and Rule 20 of the Companies (Management
and Administration) Rules, 2014 as amended from
time to time and the provisions of Regulation 44 of
the Listing Regulations, the Company is pleased
to provide members the facility to cast their vote
electronically, through the remote e-voting services
provided by KFin on all resolutions set forth in this
Notice. The resolutions as set out in this Notice
are being conducted through e-voting. The said
resolutions will not be decided by show of hands at
the AGM.
2.	The remote e-voting period commences on Saturday,
August 17, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. IST and ends on Tuesday,
August 20, 2024 at 5:00 p.m. IST. During this period
shareholders of the Company, holding shares either in
physical form or in dematerialized form, as on the cutoff date i.e., Wednesday, August 14, 2024, may cast
their vote electronically in the manner and process
set out here in above. The remote e-voting module
shall be disabled for voting thereafter. Once the vote
on a resolution is cast by the Member, the Member
shall not be allowed to change it subsequently.
3.	
Any person holding shares in physical form and
nonindividual shareholders, who acquires shares
of the Company and becomes a Member of
the Company after sending of the Notice and
holding shares as of the cut-off date, may obtain
the login ID and password by sending a request at
evoting@kfintech.com. However, if he/ she is already
registered with KFin for remote e-Voting then he/ she
can use his/ her existing User ID and password for
casting the vote.
4.	In case of Individual Shareholders holding securities
in demat mode and who acquires shares of the
Company and becomes a Member of the Company
after sending of the Notice and holding shares as of
the cut-off date may follow steps mentioned below
under “Other Instructions”.
5.	The details of the process and manner for remote
e-Voting are explained herein below:
		
Step 1: Access to Depositories e-Voting system in
case of individual shareholders holding shares in
demat mode.
		
Step 2: Access to KFin e-Voting system in case of
shareholders holding shares in physical and nonindividual shareholders in demat mode.
		Step 3: Voting during the AGM.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

109

Details on Step 1 are mentioned below:
I)

Login method for remote e-Voting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode.
Type of shareholders

Login Method

Individual Shareholders 1.
holding securities in
demat mode with NSDL

User already registered for IDeAS facility
I. Visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com
II. Click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” under ‘IDeAS’ section.
III.	On the new page, enter User ID and Password. Post successful authentication, click on “Access to e-Voting”

	IV.	Click on company name or e-Voting service provider and you will be re-directed to e-Voting service provider
website for casting the vote during the remote e-Voting period.
2.

User not registered for IDeAS e-Services
I. To register click on link: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/
II. Select “Register Online for IDeAS” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
III. Proceed with completing the required fields.
IV. Follow steps given in point 1.

3.

Alternatively by directly accessing the e-Voting website of NSDL
I. Open URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/
II. Click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
III.	A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number held
with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
IV.	Post successful authentication, you will be requested to select the name of the company and the e-Voting
Service Provider name, i.e. KFin.
V.	On successful selection, you will be redirected to KFin e-Voting page for casting your vote during the remote
e-Voting period.

Individual Shareholders 1.
holding securities in
demat mode with CDSL

Existing user who have opted for Easi/Easiest
I. Visit URL: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/home/login or URL: www.cdslindia.com
II. Click on New System Myeasi
III. Login with your registered user id and password.
IV. The user will see the e-Voting Menu. The Menu will have links of ESP i.e. KFin e-Voting portal.
V. Click on e-Voting service provider name to cast your vote.

2.

User not registered for Easi/Easiest
I. Option to register is available at https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/home/login
II. Proceed with completing the required fields.
III. Follow the steps given in point 1.

3.

Alternatively, by directly accessing the e-Voting website of CDSL
I. Visit URL: https://evoting.cdslindia.com/Evoting/EvotingLogin
II. Provide your demat Account Number and PAN No.
III.	System will authenticate user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the demat Account
IV	After successful authentication, user will be provided links for the respective ESP, i.e. KFin where the e-Voting
is in progress.

Individual Shareholder
login through their demat
accounts / Website of
Depository Participant(s)

I.	You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP registered with
NSDL / CDSL for e-Voting facility.
II.	Once logged-in, you will be able to see e-Voting option. Once you click on e-Voting option, you will be
redirected to NSDL / CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting
feature.
III.	
Click on options available against company name or e-Voting service provider – KFin and you will be
redirected to e-Voting website of KFin for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period without any
further authentication.

	Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password are advised to use Forgot user ID and Forgot
Password option available at respective websites.
	Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through
Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.

110

Login type

Helpdesk details

Securities held with NSDL

Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at toll free no.: 1800 1020 990
and 1800 224 430

Securities held with CDSL

Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at
022-23058738 or 022-23058542-43

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Details on Step 2 are mentioned below:
I)	Login method for e-Voting for shareholders other
than Individual shareholders holding securities in
demat mode and shareholders holding securities in
physical mode.
 embers whose e-mail IDs are registered with the Company /
M
Depository Participant(s), will receive an e-mail from KFin which
will include details of E-Voting Event Number (EVEN), USER ID
and password. They will have to follow the following process:
i.	
Launch internet browser by typing the URL: https://
emeetings.kfintech.com/
ii.	Enter the login credentials (i.e. User ID and password). In
case of physical folio, User ID will be EVEN (E-Voting Event
Number) 8170, followed by folio number. In case of Demat
account, User ID will be your DP ID and Client ID. However,
if you are already registered with KFin for e-voting, you
can use your existing User ID and password for casting
the vote.
iii.

After entering these details appropriately, click on “LOGIN”.

iv.	You will now reach password change menu wherein you
are required to mandatorily change your password. The
new password shall comprise of minimum 8 characters
with at least one upper case (A-Z), one lower case (a-z), one
numeric value (0-9) and a special character (@,#,$, etc.,).
The system will prompt you to change your password and
update your contact details like mobile number, e-mail ID
etc. on first login. You may also enter a secret question and
answer of your choice to retrieve your password in case
you forget it. It is strongly recommended that you do not
share your password with any other person and that you
take utmost care to keep your password confidential.
v.

You need to login again with the new credentials.

vi.	On successful login, the system will prompt you to select
the “EVEN” i.e., “Hitachi Energy India Limited – AGM” and
click on “Submit”.
vii.	On the voting page, enter the number of shares (which
represents the number of votes) as on the Cut-off Date
under “FOR/AGAINST” or alternatively, you may partially
enter any number in “FOR” and partially “AGAINST” but
the total number in “FOR/ AGAINST” taken together shall
not exceed your total shareholding as mentioned herein
above. You may also choose the option ABSTAIN. If the
Member does not indicate either “FOR” or “AGAINST” it
will be treated as “ABSTAIN” and the shares held will not
be counted under either head.
viii.	Members holding multiple folios / demat accounts shall
choose the voting process separately for each folio /
demat accounts.
ix.	Voting has to be done for each item of the notice separately.
In case you do not desire to cast your vote on any specific
item, it will be treated as abstained.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

xi.	A confirmation box will be displayed. Click “OK” to confirm
else “CANCEL” to modify. Once you have voted on the
resolution (s), you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
During the voting period, Members can login any number
of times till they have voted on the Resolution(s).
xii. 	Corporate/Institutional Members (i.e. other than Individuals,
HUF, NRI etc.) are also required to send scanned certified
true copy (PDF Format) of the Board Resolution / Authority
Letter etc., authorizing its representative to attend the
AGM on its behalf and to cast its vote through remote
e-voting together with attested specimen signature(s) of
the duly authorized representative(s), to the Scrutinizer at
e-mail id cs.skannan@gmail.com with a copy marked to
evoting@kfintech.com. The scanned image of the abovementioned documents should be in the naming format
“Hitachi Energy India 5th Annual General Meeting”.

Details on Step 3 are mentioned below:
The Members who have not cast their vote(s) through remote
e-voting can exercise their voting rights at the AGM. The
Company will make necessary arrangements in this regard at
the AGM Venue. The facility for voting through electronic voting
system (Insta Poll) shall be made available at the Meeting.
Members who have already cast their votes by remote e-voting
are eligible to attend the Meeting; however, these Members are
not entitled to cast their vote again in the Meeting. A Member
can opt for only single mode of voting i.e. through Remote
e-voting or voting at the AGM.
26. Other Instructions:
i.	Members holding shares in electronic mode, who have not
registered their email addresses are requested to register
their email addresses with their respective Depository
Participant(s) (DP).
	Members holding shares in physical mode are requested
to update their email addresses with KFin by following the
process detailed below:
	
Members holding shares in physical mode are hereby
notified that based on SEBI Circular number: SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37, dated March 16,
2003, shall register the e-mail ID, mobile number, postal
address with PIN code for their corresponding folio
numbers. Members can register/update the contact details
through submitting the requisite ISR 1 form along with the
supporting documents. ISR 1 Form can be obtained by
following the link: https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/
isr/isr1.aspx?mode=f3Y5zP
	
ISR Form(s) and the supporting documents can be
provided by any one of the following modes.
a)	Through ‘In Person Verification’ (IPV): The authorized
person of the RTA shall verify the original documents
furnished by the investor and retain copy(ies) with IPV
stamping with date and initials; or

x.	You may then cast your vote by selecting an appropriate
option and click on “Submit”.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

111

b)	Through Post: Hard copies which are self-attested, can be
sent to the address below; or
Name

KFin Technologies Limited

Address

Selenium Building, Tower-B, Plot No 31
& 32, Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally, Hyderabad, Rangareddy,
Telangana India – 500 032.

c)	Through electronic mode with e-sign service through the
link:
https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.
aspx#
	Detailed FAQ can be found on the link: https://ris.kfintech.
com/faq.html For more information on updating the email
and Mobile details for securities held in electronic mode,
please reach out to the respective DP(s), where the Demat
A/c is being held.
ii.	In case of any other queries, you may refer Help & FAQ
section of https://evoting.kfintech.com or call KFin Toll Free
No. 1800 309 4001.
iii.	In case a person has become a Member of the Company
after dispatch of AGM Notice but on or before the cut-off
date for E-voting, he / she may obtain the User ID and
Password in the manner as mentioned below:
a)	If the mobile number of the member is registered
against Folio No./ DP ID Client ID, the member
may send SMS: MYEPWD <space> E-Voting Event
Number+Folio No. or DP ID Client ID to 9212993399
		

I.	Example for NSDL:
MYEPWD <SPACE> IN12345612345678

		

II.	Example for CDSL:
MYEPWD <SPACE> 1402345612345678

		

III.	Example for Physical:
MYEPWD <SPACE> XXXX1234567890

	b)	If e-mail address or mobile number of the member
is registered against Folio No. / DP ID Client ID, then
on the home page of https://evoting.kfintech.com/
the member may click “Forgot Password” and enter
Folio No. or DP ID Client ID and PAN to generate
a password.
c)	Members who may require any technical assistance
or support before or during the AGM are requested
to contact KFin at toll free number 1800 309 4001 or
write to them at evoting@kfintech.com.
iv.	However, if you are already registered with KFin for remote
e-voting then you can use your existing user ID and
password for casting your vote. If you forgot your password,
you can reset your password by using “Forgot User Details
/ Password” option available on https://evoting.kfintech.
com or call KFin Toll Free No. 1800 309 4001.

112

v.	The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion to their
shares of the paid-up equity share capital of the Company
as on the cut-off date i.e. Wednesday, August 14, 2024.
vi.	
The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. S Kannan,
(Membership No. FCS 6261/CP No. PCS 13016), Practicing
Company Secretary and in his absence Mr. B L Vinay,
Practicing Company Secretary, Bengaluru, (Membership
No. A26638 and CP No. PCS 10760), Bengaluru as the
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the voting process in a fair and
transparent manner.
vii.	
The scrutinizer shall immediately after the conclusion
of voting at the general meeting, count the votes cast
at the meeting and votes cast through remote e-voting
in the presence of at least two witnesses who are not
in the employment of the Company and within a period
not exceeding two working days from the conclusion of
the meeting, submit a consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report
of the total votes cast in favor or against, if any, to the
Chairman or person authorized by the Chairman in writing
for counter signature.
viii.	The Results shall be declared either by the Chairman or
the person authorized by the Chairman in writing and the
resolutions will be deemed to have been passed on the
AGM date subject to receipt of the requisite number of
votes in favour thereof.
ix.	
Promptly after declaration of results, the same shall
be placed along with the Scrutinizer’s Report on the
Company’s website at https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/
en/investor-relations/general-meetings#annual-generalmeeting and on the KFin’s website at https://evoting.
kfintech.com and communicated to BSE Limited and
National Stock Exchange of India Limited, where the
shares of the Company are listed for placing the same in
their website.
x.	A person who is not a member as on the cut-off date,
should treat this Notice for information purpose only.
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024
Registered Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru – 560 092
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 68473700

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

ANNEXURE TO NOTICE
STATEMENT SETTING OUT MATERIAL FACTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Item No. 4:
The Board of Directors of the Company, based on the
recommendation of the Audit Committee, has approved
the appointment of M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost
Accountant (Registration No.: 100392) as Cost Auditor to
conduct the audit of the cost records of the Company for
the financial year ending March 31, 2025. In accordance with
the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013
read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors requires to be
approved by the Members of the Company.
Accordingly, approval of the Members is sought as referred to
in the Resolution No. 4 of the Notice for the payment of the
remuneration amounting to C 20,75,000/– (Rupees Twenty
Lakhs and Seventy-Five Thousand only) for Cost Audit plus
applicable taxes and out of pocket expenses incurred during
the course of audit for the financial year ending March 31, 2025.
The Board of Directors recommends the Resolution for approval
of Members as an Ordinary Resolution as set out in Resolution
No. 4 of the accompanying Notice.
None of the Directors and/or Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company and/or their respective relatives is concerned or
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Ordinary Resolution
as set out in Resolution No. 4 of the Notice.
Item No. 5:
In terms of Regulation 23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations,
as amended, any transactions with a related party shall be
considered material, if the transaction(s) entered into/ to be
entered into individually or taken together with the previous
transactions during a financial year exceeds C 1,000 Crores or

10% of annual consolidated turnover of the Company as per the
last audited financial statements of the Company, whichever is
lower, and shall require prior approval of shareholders by means
of an ordinary resolution. The said limits are applicable, even if
the transactions are in the ordinary course of business of the
concerned company and at an arm’s length basis.
In the financial year 2024-25, the Company proposes to enter into
certain related party transaction(s) with Hitachi Energy Sweden
AB (“HE Sweden”), on mutually agreed terms and conditions,
and the aggregate of such transaction(s), are expected to cross
the applicable materiality thresholds (i.e. C 523.75 Crores for the
financial year 2024-25) as mentioned above. Accordingly, as per
the SEBI Listing Regulations, prior approval of the Members is
being sought for all such arrangements / transactions proposed
to be undertaken by the Company. All the said transactions
shall be in the ordinary course of business of the Company and
on an arm’s length basis.
These transactions help in generating revenue and enhancing
the business operations of both the Company and HE
Sweden. Further, all transactions entered into with HE Sweden
complement and are integral to the Company’s export strategy.
The Management has provided the Audit Committee with
the relevant details, as required under law, of RPT’s including
material terms and basis of pricing from time to time. The Audit
Committee, after reviewing all necessary information, has
granted approval for entering into the below mentioned RPTs
during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e., April 01, 2024 to March
31, 2025), subject to approval by the Members at the ensuing
Annual General Meeting. The Committee has noted that the
said transactions are carried out on an arms’ length basis and
in the ordinary course of business of the Company.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

113

Details of transactions between the Company and HE Sweden, being a related party of the Company, including the
information pursuant to SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023 are as follows:
Sr.
No.

1.

Particulars

Details

Details of Summary of information provided by the Management to the Audit Committee
Name of the Related Party
Hitachi Energy Sweden AB (“HE Sweden”)
Nature of relationship with the Company Fellow Subsidiary
including nature of its concern or interest
(financial or otherwise)
Type/ Nature of contract or material terms and Sale or purchase of product(s), component(s), system(s), spares and / or rendering or receipt
particulars of the transaction
of services under multiple orders for an aggregate value of up to C 1,000 Crores entered into/
to be entered during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e. April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025).
Terms and conditions vary based on various order(s)/ contract(s)/ agreement(s)
• Delivery of Materials – generally FCA/ FOB/ DAP/ CPT
• Payment terms – generally 30-120 days
• Indirect Taxes as applicable
• Currency – primarily Swedish Krona (SEK)/ United States Dollar (USD)
• Such other conditions customary to the context of the contract(s) / agreement(s)
All transactions are in the ordinary course of business and at arm’s length basis.
Value and tenure of the transaction
Up to C 1,000 Crores during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e., April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025).
The estimated value of the transaction(s) with HE Sweden as on date has not exceeded,
however, it is expected to exceed the threshold limits of material related party transactions
(RPT’s) during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e., April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025).

2.

Percentage of the Company’s annual
consolidated turnover for the immediately
preceding financial year that is represented
by the value of the proposed transaction
Reason and Justification as to why the RPT is
in the interest of the Company

The upper limit mentioned is an enabling limit to help the business operate smoothly without
interruption.
Approximately 19% of the Company’s annual standalone turnover for the financial year 202324 (consolidated reporting is not applicable to the Company).
Hitachi Energy is a global technology leader that is advancing a sustainable energy future
for all. The Company serves customers in the utility, industry and infrastructure sectors
with innovative solutions and services across the value chain. Together with customers and
partners, the Company pioneers’ technologies and enable the digital transformation required
to accelerate the energy transition towards a carbon-neutral future. The Company is advancing
the energy system to become more sustainable, flexible and secure whilst balancing social,
environmental and economic value.
India is becoming a leader in clean tech and its investments have made India a node for
exports. Exports are a growth lever for the Company. The Company has been working towards
consistent export orders and has invested in building capabilities and networks to sustain the
same. Export includes transactions with related party entities and the Company procures and
sells products, component, system, renders and receives services from related party entities,
including HE Sweden.
Further, business transactions with HE Sweden for Projects in India and export are necessitated
by manufacturing footprint of some of key components and availability of key competencies.
There are certain products / components which are tailor made and having proven technology.
Some of these products are high in value and least options are available in the market as well.
The transactions with HE Sweden support the Company for improved business volumes,
Feeder factory contract manufacturing and for procurement of items which are not available
in the open market.
These transactions are necessary, normal and incidental to business, and also plays a significant
role in the Company’s business growth considering global contracts to aid operational efficiency
and achieve business objectives. These transactions are conducted at arm’s length and have
been undertaken in the past by the Company from time to time, depending on needs of its
business. These transactions also help in generating revenue and enhancing the business
operations of both the Company and HE Sweden. Further, all transactions entered into with HE
Sweden complement and are integral to the Company’s export strategy.

3.

4.
5.

114

Details of transaction relating to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given by the listed entity or its subsidiary:
a) Details of the source of funds in connection Not Applicable, as the transactions are not related to any loans, inter-corporate deposits,
with the proposed transaction
advances or investment made or given by the Company or its subsidiary.
b) where any financial indebtedness is incurred
to make or give loans, inter-corporate
deposits, advances or investments, nature
of indebtedness; cost of funds; and tenure
c) 
Applicable terms, including covenants,
tenure, interest rate, repayment schedule,
whether secured (nature of security) or
unsecured
d) Purpose for which funds will be utilised
A copy of the valuation or other external party Not Applicable
report, if any such report has been relied upon
Any other information relevant or important for These Related Party Transactions are being carried out at arm’s length and in the ordinary
the members to make a decision
course of business of the Company.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Mr. Achim Michael Braun, Mr. Ismo Antero Haka and Mr. Nuguri
Venu, Directors of the Company are nominated on the Board
of the Company by Hitachi Energy Ltd., Switzerland (Promoter
Group). Mr. Achim Michael Braun and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka
are also in full time employment of Hitachi Energy Ltd. and
Mr. Nuguri Venu is in the whole-time employment in the capacity
of the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company. Hence, they and/or their relatives, may be concerned
or interested, financially or otherwise, in this Resolution. None
of the other Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company and/or their relatives are concerned or interested,
financially or otherwise, in this Resolution except to the extent
of their shareholding (if any) in the Company.
The Members may note that as per the provisions of the SEBI
Listing Regulations, the related parties as defined thereunder
(whether such related party(ies) is a party to the aforesaid
transactions or not), shall not vote to approve the Resolution set
out in Item No. 5.
Basis the consideration and approval of the Audit Committee,
the Board of Directors recommend the Ordinary Resolution
forming part of Item No. 5 of the accompanying Notice for the
approval of the Members.
Item No. 6:
In terms of Regulation 23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations,
as amended, any transactions with a related party shall be
considered material, if the transaction(s) entered into/to be
entered into individually or taken together with the previous
transactions during a financial year exceeds C 1,000 Crores or
10% of annual consolidated turnover of the Company as per the
last audited financial statements of the Company, whichever is
lower, and shall require prior approval of shareholders by means
of an ordinary resolution. The said limits are applicable, even if
the transactions are in the ordinary course of business of the
concerned company and at an arm’s length basis.
In the financial year 2024-25, the Company proposes to enter into
certain related party transaction(s) Hitachi Energy Australia Pty.
Ltd. (“HE Australia”), on mutually agreed terms and conditions,

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

and the aggregate of such transaction(s), are expected to cross
the applicable materiality thresholds (i.e. C 523.75 Crores for the
financial year 2024-25) as mentioned above. Accordingly, as per
the SEBI Listing Regulations, prior approval of the Members is
being sought for all such arrangements / transactions proposed
to be undertaken by the Company. All the said transactions
shall be in the ordinary course of business of the Company and
on an arm’s length basis.
These transactions help in generating revenue and enhancing
the business operations of both the Company and HE Australia.
Further, all transactions entered into HE Australia complement
and are integral to the Company’s export strategy.
Further, the Company is expecting an order value of about C 790
Crores from HE Australia, a fellow subsidiary of the Company
towards execution of Project – Marinus Link – Voltage Source
Converter (“VSC”) High Voltage Direct Current (“HVDC”) links
between Tasmania and Victoria for supply of certain equipment
for execution of the project – Burnie Converter Station and
Latrobe Valley Converter Station. The order is scheduled to be
executed over a period of four (4) years.
Marinus Link Pty Ltd selected Hitachi Energy to supply a HVDC
project in Australia. Hitachi Energy will supply its HVDC Light®
VSC stations for the project. Delivery of certain equipment will
be executed from the Company’s factory in India.
Marinus Link is a project of national significance for Australia.
It will play a fundamental role in Australia’s energy ecosystem,
and the Company will play a crucial role in supporting it.
The Management has provided the Audit Committee with
the relevant details, as required under law, of RPT’s including
material terms and basis of pricing from time to time. The Audit
Committee, after reviewing all necessary information, has
granted approval for entering into the below mentioned RPTs
during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e., April 01, 2024 to March
31, 2025), subject to approval by the Members at the ensuing
Annual General Meeting. The Committee has noted that the
said transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis and
in the ordinary course of business of the Company.

Details of transactions between the Company and HE Australia, being a related party of the Company, including
the information pursuant to SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023 are
as follows:
Sr.
No.

Particulars

1.

Details of Summary of information provided by the Management to the Audit Committee

Details

Name of the Related Party

Hitachi Energy Australia Pty Ltd (“HE Australia”)

Nature of relationship with the Company
including nature of its concern or interest
(financial or otherwise)

Fellow Subsidiary

Type / Nature of contract or material terms
and particulars of the transaction

Sale or purchase of product(s), component(s), system(s), spares and / or rendering or receipt of
services under multiple orders for an aggregate value of up to C 1,000 Crores entered into/ to be
entered during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e. April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025).
Terms and conditions vary based on various order(s)/ contract(s)/ agreement(s)
• Delivery of Materials – generally FCA/ FOB/ DAP/ CPT
• Payment terms – generally 30-120 days
• Indirect Taxes as applicable
• Currency – primarily Australian Dollar (AUD)/United States Dollar (USD)
• Such other conditions customary to the context of the contract(s)/agreement(s)
All transactions are in the ordinary course of business and at arm’s length basis

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

115

Sr.
No.

Particulars

Details

Value and tenure of the transaction

Up to C 1,000 Crore during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e., April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025).
The estimated value of the transaction(s) with HE Australia as on date has not exceeded,
however, it is expected to exceed the threshold limits of material related party transactions
(RPT’s) during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e., April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025).
The upper limit mentioned is an enabling limit to help the business operate smoothly without
interruption.

2.

Percentage of the Company’s annual
consolidated turnover for the immediately
preceding financial year that is represented
by the value of the proposed transaction

Approximately 19% of the Company’s annual standalone turnover for the financial year 2023-24
(consolidated reporting is not applicable to the Company).

Reason and Justification as to why the RPT
is in the interest of the Company

Hitachi Energy is a global technology leader that is advancing a sustainable energy future for all.
The Company serves customers in the utility, industry and infrastructure sectors with innovative
solutions and services across the value chain. Together with customers and partners, the
Company pioneers’ technologies and enable the digital transformation required to accelerate
the energy transition towards a carbon-neutral future. The Company is advancing the energy
system to become more sustainable, flexible and secure whilst balancing social, environmental
and economic value.
India is becoming a leader in clean tech and its investments have made India a node for
exports. Exports are a growth lever for the Company. The Company has been working towards
consistent export orders and has invested in building capabilities and networks to sustain the
same. Export includes transactions with related party entities and the Company procures and
sells products, component, system, renders and receives services from related party entities,
including HE Australia.
The transactions with HE Australia will contribute to the Company to consistently improve the
export business volumes from time to time.
These transactions are necessary, normal and incidental to business, and also plays a significant
role in the Company’s business growth considering global contracts to aid operational efficiency
and achieve business objectives. These transactions are conducted at arm’s length and have
been undertaken in the past by the Company from time to time, depending on needs of its
business. These transactions also help in generating revenue and enhancing the business
operations of both the Company and HE Australia. Further, all transactions entered into with HE
Australia complement and are integral to the Company’s export strategy.

3.

Details of transaction relating to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given by the listed entity or
its subsidiary:
a) 
Details of the source of funds in
connection with the proposed transaction

Not Applicable, as the transactions are not related to any loans, inter-corporate deposits,
advances or investment made or given by the Company or its subsidiary.

b) 
where any financial indebtedness is
incurred to make or give loans, intercorporate
deposits,
advances
or
investments, nature of indebtedness;
cost of funds; and tenure
c) 
Applicable terms, including covenants,
tenure, interest rate, repayment schedule,
whether secured (nature of security) or
unsecured
d) Purpose for which funds will be utilised
4.

A copy of the valuation or other external
party report, if any such report has been
relied upon

Not Applicable

5.

Any other information relevant or important
for the members to make a decision

These Related Party Transactions are being carried out at arm’s length and in the ordinary
course of business of the Company.

Mr. Achim Michael Braun, Mr. Ismo Antero Haka and Mr. Nuguri
Venu, Directors of the Company are nominated on the Board
of the Company by Hitachi Energy Ltd., Switzerland (Promoter
Group). Mr. Achim Michael Braun and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka
are also in full time employment of Hitachi Energy Ltd. and
Mr. Nuguri Venu is in the whole-time employment in the capacity
of the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company. Hence, they and/or their relatives, may be concerned
or interested, financially or otherwise, in this Resolution. None
of the other Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company and/or their relatives are concerned or interested,

116

financially or otherwise, in this Resolution except to the extent
of their shareholding (if any) in the Company.
The Members may note that as per the provisions of the SEBI
Listing Regulations, the related parties as defined thereunder
(whether such related party(ies) is a party to the aforesaid
transactions or not), shall not vote to approve the Resolution set
out in Item No. 6.
Basis the consideration and approval of the Audit Committee,
the Board of Directors recommend the Ordinary Resolution
forming part of Item No. 6 of the accompanying Notice for the
approval of the Members.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Item No. 7:
In terms of Regulation 23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations,
as amended, any transactions with a related party shall be
considered material, if the transaction(s) entered into/ to be
entered into individually or taken together with the previous
transactions during a financial year exceeds C 1,200 Crores or
10% of annual consolidated turnover of the Company as per the
last audited financial statements of the Company, whichever is
lower, and shall require prior approval of shareholders by means
of an ordinary resolution. The said limits are applicable, even if
the transactions are in the ordinary course of business of the
concerned company and at an arm’s length basis.
In the financial year 2024-25, the Company proposes to enter
into certain related party transaction(s) with Hitachi Energy
Ltd., Switzerland (“HE Switzerland”), on mutually agreed terms
and conditions, and the aggregate of such transaction(s), are
expected to cross the applicable materiality thresholds (i.e.
C 523.75 Crores for the financial year 2024-25) as mentioned
above. Accordingly, as per the SEBI Listing Regulations,

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

prior approval of the Members is being sought for all such
arrangements / transactions proposed to be undertaken by the
Company. All the said transactions shall be in the ordinary course
of business of the Company and on an arm’s length basis.
These transactions help in generating revenue and enhancing
the business operations of both the Company and HE
Switzerland. Further, all transactions entered into with HE
Switzerland complement and are integral to the Company’s
export strategy.
The Management has provided the Audit Committee with
the relevant details, as required under law, of RPT’s including
material terms and basis of pricing from time to time. The Audit
Committee, after reviewing all necessary information, has
granted approval for entering into the below mentioned RPTs
during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e., April 01, 2024 to March
31, 2025), subject to approval by the Members at the ensuing
Annual General Meeting. The Committee has noted that the
said transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis and
in the ordinary course of business of the Company.

Details of transactions between the Company and HE Switzerland, being a related party of the Company, including the
information pursuant to SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023 are as follows:
Sr.
No.

Particulars

1.

Details of Summary of information provided by the Management to the Audit Committee

Details

Name of the Related Party

Hitachi Energy Ltd., Switzerland (“HE Switzerland”)

Nature of relationship with the Company
including nature of its concern or interest
(financial or otherwise)

Holding Company

Type / Nature of contract or material terms
and particulars of the transaction

Sale or purchase of product(s), component(s), system(s), spares and / or rendering or receipt of
services (including royalty & technology payments) under multiple orders for an aggregate value
of up to C 1,200 Crores entered into/ to be entered during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e. April
01, 2024 to March 31, 2025).
Terms and conditions vary based on various order(s)/ contract(s)/ agreement(s)
•
•
•
•
•

Delivery of Materials – generally FCA/ FOB/ DAP/ CPT/ Ex-Works
Payment terms – generally 30-120 days
Indirect Taxes as applicable
Currency – primarily Swedish Krona (SEK)/ Swiss Franc (CHF) / United States Dollar (USD)
Such other conditions customary to the context of the contract(s) / agreement(s) / Purchase
Orders

All transactions are in the ordinary course of business and at arm’s length basis.
Value and tenure of the transaction

Up to C 1,200 Crores during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e., April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025).
The estimated value of the transaction(s) with HE Switzerland as on date has not exceeded,
however, it is expected to exceed the threshold limits of material related party transactions
(RPT’s) during the financial year 2024-25 (i.e., April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025).
The upper limit mentioned is an enabling limit to help the business operate smoothly without
interruption.

2.

Percentage of the Company’s annual
consolidated turnover for the immediately
preceding financial year that is represented
by the value of the proposed transaction

Approximately 23% of the Company’s annual standalone turnover for the financial year 2023-24
(consolidated reporting is not applicable to the Company).

Reason and Justification as to why the RPT
is in the interest of the Company

Hitachi Energy is a global technology leader that is advancing a sustainable energy future for all.
The Company serves customers in the utility, industry and infrastructure sectors with innovative
solutions and services across the value chain. Together with customers and partners, the
Company pioneers’ technologies and enable the digital transformation required to accelerate
the energy transition towards a carbon-neutral future. The Company is advancing the energy
system to become more sustainable, flexible and secure whilst balancing social, environmental
and economic value.
India is becoming a leader in clean tech and its investments have made India a node for
exports. Exports are a growth lever for the Company. The Company has been working towards
consistent export orders and has invested in building capabilities and networks to sustain the
same. Export includes transactions with related party entities and the Company procures and
sells products, component, system, renders and receives services from related party entities,
including HE Switzerland.
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

117

Sr.
No.

Particulars

Details

The business transactions with HE Switzerland includes certain products (ex: Bushing
Accessories) wherein the core manufacturing facilities are not available with the Company in
India. Therefore, these transactions between the Company and HE Switzerland will provide the
common platform for using the same technology for manufacturing certain products.
The transactions with HE Switzerland will also contributes for improved export business volumes
and product development/ support in India.
Further, considering the nature of Research and Development (R&D), complexity, competency
required, time frame, amount and also to optimize overall cost, all major R&D efforts are pooled
centrally at Hitachi Energy Group level. Certain development activities carried out by the
Company are billed to the Group central technology center and reimbursed to the Company.
Payments to HE Switzerland also includes license fee for use of technology know-how reported
as royalty and technology fees.
During the financial year 2023-24, the Company has paid total royalty and technology fees
of H 190.15 Crores, out of which H 90.50 Crores was paid to Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd.
Further, during the financial year 2023-24, Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd. was merged with
HE Switzerland. Subsequently, H 99.65 Crores was paid to HE Switzerland towards royalty and
technology fees. Consequent to this merger, the regular business transaction including royalty/
technology fees transaction will be undertaken with HE Switzerland.
However, payment towards royalty and technology fees to HE Switzerland during the financial
year 2024-25 shall remain within the threshold limit of 5% of previous year turnover as prescribed
under Regulation 23 of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015.
These transactions are necessary, normal and incidental to business, and also plays a significant
role in the Company’s business growth considering global contracts to aid operational efficiency
and achieve business objectives. These transactions are conducted at arm’s length and have
been undertaken in the past by the Company from time to time, depending on needs of its
business. These transactions also help in generating revenue and enhancing the business
operations of both the Company and HE Switzerland. Further, all transactions entered into with
HE Switzerland complement and are integral to the Company’s export strategy.
3.

Details of transaction relating to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given by the listed entity or its subsidiary:
a) Details of the source of funds in connection Not Applicable, as the transactions are not related to any loans, inter-corporate deposits,
with the proposed transaction
advances or investment made or given by the Company or its subsidiary.
b) where any financial indebtedness is incurred
to make or give loans, inter-corporate
deposits, advances or investments, nature
of indebtedness; cost of funds; and tenure
c) 
Applicable terms, including covenants,
tenure, interest rate, repayment schedule,
whether secured (nature of security) or
unsecured
d) Purpose for which funds will be utilised

4.

A copy of the valuation or other external party Not Applicable
report, if any such report has been relied upon

5.

Any other information relevant or important for All important information forms part of the statement setting out material facts, pursuant to
the members to make a decision
Section 102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 forming part of this Notice.

Mr. Achim Michael Braun, Mr. Ismo Antero Haka and Mr. Nuguri
Venu, Directors of the Company are nominated on the Board
of the Company by Hitachi Energy Ltd., Switzerland (Promoter
Group). Mr. Achim Michael Braun and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka
are also in full time employment of Hitachi Energy Ltd. and
Mr. Nuguri Venu is in the whole-time employment in the capacity
of the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company. Hence, they and/or their relatives, may be concerned
or interested, financially or otherwise, in this Resolution. None
of the other Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company and/or their relatives are concerned or interested,
financially or otherwise, in this Resolution except to the extent
of their shareholding (if any) in the Company.
The Members may note that as per the provisions of the SEBI
Listing Regulations, the related parties as defined thereunder
(whether such related party(ies) is a party to the aforesaid
transactions or not), shall not vote to approve the Resolution set
out in Item No. 7.

118

Basis the consideration and approval of the Audit Committee,
the Board of Directors recommend the Ordinary Resolution
forming part of Item No. 7 of the accompanying Notice for the
approval of the Members.
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024
Registered Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru – 560 092
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 68473700

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Annexure I to AGM Notice
Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN: 08596097), the Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director, Chairman of the Company is liable to
retire by rotation and being eligible, has offered himself for re appointment. Mr. Achim Michael Braun was first appointed as a Director
on the Board of the Company with effect from February 25, 2021.
Details of Mr. Achim Michael Braun seeking re-appointment at the 5th Annual General Meeting pursuant to Secretarial Standard
2 (SS-2) issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) and Regulation 36 of The SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 is appended below:
Name of the Director

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

DIN

08596097

Date of Birth & Age

February 20, 1969 (55 Years)

Nationality

Germany

Date of Appointment on the Board

February 25, 2021

Qualifications

Master‘s degree in Business Administration from the University of Regensburg, Germany.

Expertise in specific functional area

Power grid business and refer information mentioned above and brief profile section

Shareholding in the Company

NIL

Directorship held in other companies

Hitachi Energy (China) Limited
Hitachi Energy USA Inc. (formerly known as ABB Enterprise Software Inc)

Committee positions held in other companies

NIL

Number of Board Meetings attended during the
financial year 2023-24

During the Financial Year 2023-24, he has attended all the 4 Board meetings

Relationships with other Directors, Manager and
other Key Managerial Personnel of the Company

He is not related to any other Director and / or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company

Remuneration details (last drawn remuneration
including Sitting Fees & Commission)

Not drawing any remuneration or commission or sitting fees in the capacity of Director from the
company.

Details of remuneration sought to be paid

NIL

Occupation

Service

Brief Profile

Mr. Achim Michael Braun is the Chairman and Non-Executive Director of the Company. Mr. Achim
Braun is the Head of Human Resources at Hitachi Energy Ltd. He joined Hitachi Energy Ltd’s
predecessor in 2018, serving as Senior Vice President for Human Resources. Prior to this, Achim
worked in different leadership roles at Continental, Schaeffler and as Vice President for Human
Resources Europe & Africa at the Lear Corporation.

Key terms and conditions of appointment

He is a Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director of the Company. He is required to comply with
the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, and SEBI Regulations and other applicable laws.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

119

Board’s Report
Dear Members,
The Board of Directors are pleased to present the 5th Integrated Annual Report covering the business and operations of Hitachi
Energy India Limited (“the Company”) along with the Company’s audited financials for the year ended March 31, 2024.

1. Financial Summary and Highlights:
(Amount in K Crores)
FY 2023-24

FY 2022-23

From April 1,
2023 to
March 31, 2024

From April 1,
2022 to
March 31, 2023

5,237.49

4,468.51

9.29

15.14

Total Income

5,246.78

4,483.65

Less: Total Expenses

5,025.08

4,352.83

Particulars

Revenue from Operations
Add: Other Income

Profit before tax

221.70

130.82

Tax expense

57.92

36.92

Profit after tax

163.78

93.90

Add: Other Comprehensive Income

(4.81)

1.74

Total Comprehensive Income

158.97

95.64

-

-

Balance brought forward from the previous year

Balance of retained earnings transferred pursuant to the scheme of arrangement

691.31

608.39

Amount available for appropriation

850.28

704.03

Appropriations:
(14.41)

(12.72)

Tax on equity dividend paid

Equity dividend paid

-

-

Debenture redemption reserve

-

-

General reserve
Balance carried forward

-

-

835.87

691.31

38.64

22.16

Key ratios:
Earnings per share (C)

2. Performance Review:
	During the financial year ended March 31, 2024, orders
touched C 5,536.30 Crores as against C 6,817.20 Crores
during the year ended March 31, 2023. The orders
witnessed a healthy growth reflecting the technology push
and continued traction in transformers and high voltage
products. The order backlog at the end of the year stood
at C 7,229.53 Crores (March 31, 2023 was C 7,070.91 Crores)
which continued to provide visibility to the future revenue
streams. The total income for your Company for the
financial year ended March 31, 2024, stood at C 5,246.78
Crores (March 31, 2023 was C 4,483.65 Crores), reflecting
stability of operations. Profit before tax was C 221.70 Crores
(March 31, 2023 was C 130.82 Crores). Accordingly, net
profit after tax was C 163.78 Crores (March 31, 2023 was
C 93.90 Crores). The earnings per share for the financial
year ended March 31, 2024, stood at C 38.64 (March 31,
2023 was C 22.16).

120

	
For detailed analysis of the performance, including
industry overview, changes, and outlook, please refer to
the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section of
this Report.
	There has been no change in the nature of business during
the financial year under review.

3. Management Discussion and Analysis:
	Management Discussion and Analysis for the year under
review, as stipulated under the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),
is presented in Annexure-A, forming part of the
Boards’ Report.

Corporate Overview

4.	
Glimpse
of
consolidation:

rebranding

Integrated Report

and

	Hitachi Energy India Limited (“the Company”) underwent
significant transformations since its inception. Firstly, the
Scheme of Arrangement (“Scheme”) between (i) ABB India
Limited (“INABB”/“Transferor”) and (ii) Hitachi Energy India
Limited (“Company”/“Transferee”) and their respective
shareholders and creditors, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 230 to 232 and other applicable provisions of the
Companies Act, 2013, (“Act”) which provided for inter alia
the Demerger of the Power Grids Business of INABB
(“Demerged Undertaking”) and the consequent issuance
of equity shares by your Company to the shareholders
of INABB as per the share entitlement ratio, which was
approved by the National Company Law Tribunal, Bengaluru
Bench (“NCLT”) on November 27, 2019, allowed Hitachi
Energy India Limited to concentrate its resources on its
core business areas, enhance operational efficiency, and
maximize value for its stakeholders.
	In addition, 3,17,86,256 equity shares aggregating 75%
of the paid-up capital of your Company was transferred
from ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd. to ABB Ltd. by way
of dividend in kind, and subsequently from ABB Ltd. to
Hitachi Energy Ltd as contribution in kind (as disclosed by
the Shareholders) on February 5, 2021.
	Consequent to this, your Company underwent a name
change from “ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited” to “Hitachi Energy India Limited” with effect from
November 12, 2021, following the rebranding of its parent
company as Hitachi Energy Ltd. and in keeping with its’
vision of becoming a part of Hitachi Energy group. This
change reaffirms your Company’s commitment to advance
a sustainable energy future for all in India, in the presence of
key policy makers and industry leaders. With its new brand
name – Hitachi Energy India – the business will be able to
effectively position its pioneering technologies and services
to existing and future customers expanding beyond the
grid – opening up a breadth of opportunities in areas such
as sustainable mobility and smart life, and contributing
further economic, environmental and social value. In
continuation to the change in name of the Company, the
Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association of
your Company were also amended involving name change
and the financial year of the Company was changed from
January 1 – December 31 to April 1 – March 31 during
the financial period 2021-22. Necessary approvals from
various regulatory authorities, as applicable in this regard
was secured by the Company from time to time.
	Furthermore, on December 28, 2022, Hitachi Ltd., the
ultimate parent entity of the Company has completed the
previously announced acquisition of ABB Ltd.’s remaining
19.9% equity stake in Hitachi Energy Ltd., a Joint Venture
that was formed from ABB’s Power Grids business in
2020. Thus, Hitachi Ltd. now holds 100% of the equity
stake in Hitachi Energy Ltd., (Zurich, Switzerland), which
is the holding company which presently holds 75% stake
in the Company. The solid commitment from Hitachi to the

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

announced acquisition of the remaining shares of Hitachi
Energy ahead of plan will help accelerating enabling the agile
and committed team to support customers and partners
addressing the global challenge of the energy transition,
while continuing to deliver strong financial performance and
creating value.

	Re-classification of Promoter/Promoter Group
entities of the Company:
	During the year under review, the Board of Directors at
their meeting held on May 23, 2023 (which adjourned and
concluded on May 24, 2023), approved the request received
from ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd, ABB Switzerland Ltd, and
ABB Ltd (“Outgoing Promoters”) under Promoter/ Promoter
Group, seeking re-classification from ‘Promoter/ Promoter
Group Category’ to ‘Public Category’ under Regulation 31A
of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Further, your Company had
made an application to National Stock Exchange of India
Limited and BSE Limited (collectively referred to as the
“Stock Exchanges”) on June 7, 2023, seeking approval for
re-classification of the Outgoing Promoters from ‘Promoter/
Promoter Group Category’ to ‘Public Category’.
	On October 6, 2023, your Company had received the
necessary approvals from the Stock Exchanges vide their
letters dated October 6, 2023 and accordingly, ABB Asea
Brown Boveri Ltd, ABB Switzerland Ltd, and ABB Ltd,
have been reclassified from ‘Promoter/Promoter Group
Category’ to ‘Public Category’ in the shareholding of the
Company with effect from October 6, 2023. Accordingly,
the above Promoters were considered under the ‘Public’
category of shareholders with effect from October 6, 2023.
	Also, your Company has received advisory letters from
the Stock Exchanges vide their letters dated October 6,
2023. Your Company had filed an application with the Stock
Exchanges on June 7, 2023 for re-classification of certain
persons from ‘Promoter/Promoter Group Category’ to
‘Public Category’ in accordance with Regulation 31A of the
SEBI Listing Regulations. The advisory letters were issued
on account of a delay (of 21.5 hours) in filing the intimation,
in relation to submission of the aforesaid application, with
the Stock Exchanges pursuant to disclosure requirement
under Regulation 31A(8)(c) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The intimation was required to be filed within 24 hours of the
filing of the application by the Company. However, there was
no impact on financial, operation or other activities of your
Company pursuant to the abovementioned advisory letters.

5. Dividend & Reserves:
a)

Declaration and payment of dividend:

		The Board of Directors at their meeting held on
May 21, 2024, recommended a final dividend of C 4.00
(Rupees Four only) per equity share for the financial
year ended March 31, 2024, on 4,23,81,675 equity
shares of C 2/– each fully paid.
		The dividend recommended is in accordance with the
Company’s Dividend Distribution Policy.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

121

b)

Dividend Distribution Policy:

		In terms of the provisions of Regulation 43A of the
SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has in place
a Dividend Distribution Policy, which contains various
parameters, basis which the Board of Directors
may recommend or declare Dividend. The same is
accessible at the Company’s website at: https://www.
hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporategovernance#policies

		Accordingly, the Dividend declared up to financial year
2023-24 pertaining to the shares remaining with IEPF
authorities has also been transferred to the Investor
Education and Protection Fund account from time
to time.
		The details of the above are provided on the website
of the Company at: https://www.hitachienergy.com/
in/en/investor-relations/shareholder-information#iepf

f)
c)

Book Closure:

		The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of
the Company will remain closed from August 15, 2024
to August 21, 2024 (both days inclusive) to determine
the eligible shareholders to receive the dividend for
the year ended March 31, 2024 and accordingly,
the record date for dividend will be Wednesday,
August 14, 2024.
		According to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend income
will be taxable in the hands of the Members w.e.f.
April 1, 2020, and the Company is required to deduct
tax at source from the dividend paid to the Members
at prescribed rates as per the Income Tax Act, 1961.

d)

Unclaimed dividends:

		
Details of outstanding and unclaimed dividends
previously declared and paid by the Company are
given under the Corporate Governance Report.

e)	Transfer to Investor Education and
Protection Fund:
		As per Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013,
read with IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer
and Refund) Rules 2016 (‘the Rules’) all unpaid or
unclaimed dividends are required to be transferred
by the Company to the IEPF established by the Central
Government, after completion of seven years and the
shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid
or claimed by the members for seven consecutive
years or more shall also be transferred to the Demat
account created by IEPF Authority. In line with the
applicable provisions and after completion of seven
consecutive years, the Company will transfer the said
shares, after sending an intimation of the proposed
transfer in advance to the concerned shareholders,
as well as publish a public notice in this regard.
		Further, pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement
[entered into between (i) ABB India Limited
(“INABB”/“Transferor”) and (ii) Hitachi Energy India
Limited (“the Company”) and their respective
shareholders and creditors] approved by National
Company Law Tribunal, Bengaluru Bench vide its
order dated November 27, 2019, the Company directly
allotted 1,07,421 Equity Shares to the shareholders
of ABB India Limited in accordance with the share
entitlement ratio pertaining to the relevant shares of
ABB India Limited lying with IEPF.

122

Transfer to Reserves:

		For the financial year under review, your Company
has proposed not to transfer any amount to the
General Reserves.

6. Share Capital:
	As of March 31, 2024, the authorized share capital of the
Company was C 10 Crores comprising of 5,00,00,000
equity shares of C 2 each, and the paid-up equity share
capital as of March 31, 2024, was C 8.48 Crores comprising
of 4,23,81,675 equity shares of C 2 each.
	During the year under review, the Company had neither
issued any shares nor instruments convertible into equity
shares of the Company or with differential voting rights nor
has granted any sweat equity shares.

7.	
Material Changes and Commitment
affecting the Financial Position:
	There were no material changes affecting the financial
position of the Company that took place after the close of
the financial year 2023-24 till the date of this Report.

8.	Subsidiary / Joint Venture or Associate
Company:
	During the financial year under review, the Company did not
have any subsidiary, joint venture, or associate Company.

9.	
Expansion
/
Addition
manufacturing facilities:

of

new

	
Your Company added new manufacturing facilities,
the details of which are provided under Management
Discussion and Analysis section of this Report.

10. Credit Rating:
	The Company had outstanding short-term borrowings
of C 150 Crores as on March 31, 2024, utilized from the
established credit lines with banks.
	CRISIL Ratings Limited has reaffirmed the long-term and
short-term credit ratings for C 6,000 Crores bank loan
facilities of the Company.
	CRISIL has assigned ‘CRISIL A1+’ as Short-Term Rating
and assigned ‘CRISIL AAA/Stable’ ratings as a Long-Term
Rating effective from August 29, 2023.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

	The Company’s financial discipline and prudence are
reflected in the strong credit ratings ascribed by rating
agencies. The details of credit ratings are also disclosed in
the Management Discussion and Analysis section, which
forms part of the Board’s Report.

11.	Board of Directors and Key Managerial
Personnel:
	The Board of Directors of the Company comprises of
eminent persons with proven competence and integrity.
Besides the experience, strong financial insight and
leadership qualities, they have a significant degree of
commitment towards the Company and devote adequate
time to the Meetings.
	As at March 31, 2024, the Board of Directors comprised
6 Directors of which 1 is Executive Director, 2 are
Non‑Executive, Non-Independent Directors and 3 are
Non‑Executive, Independent Directors.
• Mr. Nuguri Venu (DIN: 07032076), Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer is the Executive Director.
• Mr. Ismo Antero Haka (DIN:08598862) and Mr. Achim
Michael Braun (DIN:08596097) are the Non-Executive,
Non-Independent Directors.
• Mr. Mukesh Butani (DIN: 01452839), Ms. Akila
Krishnakumar (DIN: 06629992) and Ms. Meena Ganesh
(DIN: 00528252) are the Independent Directors.
	The composition of the Board of Directors is in due
compliance with the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI
Listing Regulations.
	None of the Directors of the Company are disqualified
under Section 164(2) of the Companies Act, 2013.

Key Managerial Personnel:
	Mr. Nuguri Venu (DIN: 07032076), Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Ajay Singh, Chief Financial
Officer, and Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel,
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer are the Key
Managerial Personnel in accordance with the provisions
of Section 203 of the Companies Act, 2013. There was no
change in the Key Managerial Personnel during the year.

Change in Composition of Board of Directors:
	During the year under review, Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN:
03016991) resigned from the position of Independent
Director of the Company effective from May 24, 2023. The
Board places on record its appreciation for the valuable
contributions made by Ms. Nishi Vasudeva during her
tenure as an Independent Director of the Company.
	
Based on the recommendation of Nomination and
Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors at
their Meeting held on May 24, 2023, has approved the
appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh (DIN: 00528252) as an
Additional Director in the capacity of Independent Director for

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

a term of 5 (five) consecutive years effective from May 24, 2023 to
May 23, 2028.
	The Board of Directors is of the opinion that Independent
Director appointed during the year under review possess
necessary expertise, integrity and experience.

Appointment/ Re-appointment of Directors:
	Based on the recommendation of the Board of Directors,
the Shareholders at the fourth Annual General Meeting held
on August 17, 2023, approved the:
• Re-appointment of Mr. Ismo Antero Haka (DIN:
08598862), Non-Executive Director who retired
by rotation.
• Appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh (DIN: 00528252) as
an Independent Director for a term of five (5) consecutive
years effective from May 24, 2023 to May 23, 2028.
	Further, in accordance with the Articles of Association of
the Company and the provisions of Section 152(6)(e) of
the Companies Act, 2013, Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN:
08596097), Director, will retire by rotation at the ensuing
Annual General Meeting, and being eligible, offer himself
for re-appointment.
	A brief resume of Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN: 08596097)
proposed to be re-appointed, the nature of his expertise in
specific functional areas and names of the Companies in
which he holds Directorship/ Membership/ Chairmanship
of the Board or Committees, as stipulated under SEBI
Listing Regulations has been provided as an annexure to
the Notice convening the 5th Annual General Meeting.
	
Details of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and
Composition of various Committees of the Board are
provided in the Corporate Governance Report forming part
of this report.

Declaration of Independent Directors:
	The Company’s Independent Directors have submitted
requisite declarations confirming that they continue to meet
the criteria of independence as prescribed under Section
149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 16(1)
(b) read with Regulation 25 of SEBI Listing Regulations
and they have registered their names in the Independent
Directors’ Databank.
	The Independent Directors have also given their undertaking
that they are not aware of any event or incident that exists
or might reasonably be anticipated that could impair
or damage their capacity to fulfil their duties objectively
and independently.

	
Familiarization
Directors:

Program

for

Independent

	The Company has a program in place to familiarize its
Independent Directors. The program’s primary objective
is to familiarize Independent Directors on our Board with
the Company’s business, industry in which the Company

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

123

operates, business model, challenges, and so on, through
a variety of programs that include regular meetings with our
business leads and functional heads, as well as interaction
with subject matter experts within the Company.
	The familiarization program and other disclosures as
specified under the Listing Regulations is available on the
Company’s website at https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/
en/investor-relations/board-of-directors.

	Selection and Procedure for Nomination and
Appointment of Directors and Nomination and
Remuneration Policy of the Company:
	The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of
the Company is entrusted to determine the criteria for the
requirements of the Board. NRC, while recommending
candidature to the Board, takes into consideration the
qualification, attributes, experience and independence of
the candidate.

	Further, the performance evaluation of the Independent
Directors was carried out by the entire Board. The
performance evaluation of the Chairman, the Board as a
whole and the Non-Independent Directors was carried out
by the Independent Directors at their separate meeting held
during the year.
	The questionnaire was circulated to all the Board members
of the Company in a transparent and confidential manner.
The key parameters considered for Board evaluation are
Board Membership, Board’s Culture and Relationships
with Key Constituencies, Board Responsibilities, DecisionMaking and Board Committees. During the evaluation
process, the Directors have given ratings of either ‘Strongly
agree’ / ‘Agree’ on various assessment questions.
	A consolidated report was shared with the Chairman of the
Board for his review and giving feedback to each Director.
Accordingly, feedback was provided to Directors.

	Pursuant to Section 178(3) of the Companies Act, 2013,
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board
has formulated, amongst others, a policy on Nomination
and Remuneration which provides the framework for
remunerating the members of the Board, Key Managerial
Personnel, Senior Management and other employees of
the Company. This Policy is guided by the principles and
objectives enumerated in Section 178(4) of the Companies
Act, 2013.

12. Board Meetings:

	The details of the Nomination and Remuneration Policy are
mentioned in the report on Corporate Governance and the
same is also placed on the Company’s website at https://
www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/board-ofdirectors.

	
The attendance of the Directors in the meetings are
provided in the Corporate Governance Report forming part
of this Report.

	Disclosures pertaining to remuneration and other details
as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act,
2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
are provided in the prescribed format and annexed as
Annexure-B to this Report.

	Annual Performance Evaluation of the Board,
its Committees and individual Directors:
	The Board, along with the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, approved a criteria framework in the form of
a questionnaire for annual evaluation of the Board, Board
Committees and Individual Directors pursuant to the
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Corporate
Governance requirements under Regulation 25(4) of SEBI
Listing Regulations read with SEBI’s Guidance Note on
Board Evaluation.
	During the year under review, the Board of Directors have
carried out an annual evaluation of its own performance,
Board Committees, and Individual Directors. The Board
evaluation was conducted through a questionnaire
designed with qualitative parameters and feedback based
on ratings.

124

	During the year under review, the Board of Directors of the
Company met four (4) times viz., (1) May 23, 2023 (which
was adjourned and concluded on May 24, 2023); (2) July
25, 2023; (3) November 6, 2023 and (4) January 23, 2024.
	In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,
2013, a separate meeting of the Independent Directors of
the Company was held on July 25, 2023.

Committees of the Board:
	As required under the Act and the Listing Regulations,
the Company has constituted the following, including the
statutory committees:
i.

Audit Committee

ii.

Nomination and Remuneration Committee

iii.

Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee

iv.

Risk Management Committee

v.

Corporate Social Responsibility Committee

vi.

Environment, Social and Governance Committee

	A detailed note on the composition of various Committees
of the Board and their Meetings including the terms of
reference are given in the Corporate Governance Report
forming part of the Board’s Report.
	Further, pursuant to resignation of Ms. Nishi Vasudeva
and appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh as Independent
Director of the Company, the Board of Directors at their
Board Meeting held on May 23, 2023 (which adjourned
and concluded on May 24, 2023) has reconstituted the
composition of certain Committees with effect from May 24,
2023, details have been included in Corporate Governance
Report which forms part of this Board’s Report.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

13. Directors’ Responsibility Statement:
	Pursuant to the provisions of Section 134(5) of the Act,
the Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge
and belief:
a)	in the preparation of the annual financial statements,
the applicable accounting standards have been
followed along with proper explanation relating to
material departures;
b)	they had selected such accounting policies and
applied them consistently and made judgments and
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company at the end of the financial year and of the
profit and loss of the Company for that period;
c)	they had taken proper and sufficient care for the
maintenance of adequate accounting records
in accordance with the provisions of this Act for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and for
preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
d)	they have prepared the annual financial statements on
a going concern basis;
e)	they have laid down internal financial controls to be
followed by the Company and that such internal
financial controls are adequate and were operating
effectively; and
f)	
they have devised proper systems to ensure
compliance with the provisions of all applicable
laws and that such systems were adequate and
operating effectively.

14. Corporate Governance Report:
	The Company is committed to upholding the highest
standards of Corporate Governance and follows the
Corporate Governance requirements set out by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”). In
addition, the Company has included various best
governance practices.
	In terms of Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the
SEBI Listing Regulations, a separate section on Corporate
Governance including a certificate from M/s V. Sreedharan
& Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries confirming
compliance is annexed as Annexure-C, forming an integral
part of this Report.

15. Statutory Auditors:
	Pursuant to provisions of Section 139 of the Act read
with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014,
M/s. S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants
(Registration No. 101049W/ E300004) were appointed as
Statutory Auditors, for a period of five years, to hold office
from the conclusion of first Annual General Meeting until
the conclusion of the sixth Annual General Meeting at such

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

remuneration as may be mutually agreed amongst by the
Board of Directors and the Statutory Auditors.
	The Statutory Auditor’s Report on the financial statements
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, does not
contain any qualifications, reservation, adverse remarks or
disclaimer which requires any explanation from the Board
of Directors.

16.	
Cost Audit and Cost Auditors of the
Company:
	As per requirements of Section 148 of the Act read with
the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, the
Company is required to make and maintain cost records for
certain products as specified by the Central Government.
Accordingly, the Company has, during the year under
review, in accordance with Section 148(1) of the Act, the
Company has maintained the accounts and cost records,
as specified by the Central Government.
	In terms of the provisions of Section 148 of the Act read
with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014,
the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Audit
Committee, appointed M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates,
Cost Accountants (Registration No: 100392) as Cost
Auditor of the Company, for the financial year 2024-25, on a
remuneration as stated in notice convening the Fifth Annual
General Meeting Notice dated May 21, 2024 for conducting
the audit of the cost records maintained by your Company.
	A certificate from M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost
Accountants has been received to the effect that their
appointment as Cost Auditor of the Company, if made,
would be in accordance with the limits specified under
Section 141 of the Act and Rules framed thereunder and
they are not disqualified to be appointed as Cost Auditor.
	
A Resolution seeking Shareholders’ approval for
remuneration payable to Cost Auditor forms part of the
Notice convening the 5th Annual General Meeting of
your Company and same is recommended for your
consideration. Cost Audit and Compliance reports for
the financial year 2022-23 were filed with the Registrar of
Companies, within the prescribed time limit.

17. Secretarial Audit:
	Pursuant to provisions of Section 204 of the Act read with
Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and amendments
thereto, the Board of Directors of the Company have
appointed BMP & Co. LLP (LLPIN: AAI-4194), Company
Secretaries, Bengaluru, to conduct the Secretarial Audit
for the financial year 2023-24.
	The Secretarial Audit Report (Form MR-3) for the financial
year ended March 31, 2024, is annexed herewith and
marked as Annexure-D to this Report.
	
The Secretarial Audit Report does not contain any
qualification, reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

125

18. Secretarial Standards:
	The Board of Directors affirms that the Company has
complied with applicable Secretarial Standards on board
meetings and general meetings issued by the Institute of
Company Secretaries of India (ICSI).

19. Branch Offices:
	During the year under review, the Company had branch
offices in Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. All these branch
offices continue to be operational. The branch offices are
undertaking business operations in respective countries.
The branches play a key role in supporting the Company to
penetrate the market, by providing local support for various
business activities.
	
Through these branches, your Company is engaged
with a wide spectrum of customers (Utilities, Industries,
Distributors, OEMs etc.) in their respective countries.

20. Branch Auditors:
	In terms of provisions of sub-section (8) of Section 143
of the Act read with Rule 12 of the Companies (Audit
and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the audit of the accounts of
the branch offices of the Company located outside India
is required to be conducted by the person(s) or firm(s)
qualified to act as Branch Auditors in accordance with the
laws of that country.
	In this regard, the Company has secured the Shareholders’
approval in the Third Annual General Meeting held on
July 22, 2022, for authorizing the Board of Directors/ Audit
Committee to appoint Branch Auditors of any branch office
of the Company from time to time.
	The Board of Directors at their Meeting held on May 23,
2023 (which adjourned and concluded on May 24, 2023)
has appointed the following branch auditors for the Branch
Offices of the Company to conduct the audit for the financial
year 2023-24:
Branch office of the
Name of Branch Auditors
Company

Bangladesh Branch Md. Abdus Satter Sarkar, FCA, Partner of
Mahfel Huq & Co., Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration Number: P-46323)
Sri Lanka Branch

Keerthi Mihiripenna & Co., Chartered
Accountants (Firm Registration Number:
WP 1419), Colombo

Nepal Branch

Shashi Satyal, Partner of TR Upadhya
& Co., Chartered Accountants (Firm
Registration Number: 6)

21.	
Environment, Social and Governance
Committee and Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report (BRSR):
	The Company is on a continuous improvement journey for
creating long-term value for its stakeholders.

126

	The Company has constituted Environment, Social and
Governance (ESG) Committee in the Board Meeting held
on October 22, 2021.
	During the financial year under review, the Environment,
Social and Governance Committee was reconstituted by
inducting Ms. Meena Ganesh, Independent Director as
member of the Committee with effect from May 24, 2023
in place of Ms. Nishi Vasudeva, Independent Director, who
ceased to be a member of the Environment, Social and
Governance Committee upon her resignation as a Director
of the Company with effect from May 24, 2023.
	The details of the performance and reporting under ESG as
a part of mandatory disclosure from the financial year under
review are included under the Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report forming part of the Board’s Report.
	Further, the sustainability initiatives taken by the Company
including sustainable development goals from an
environmental, social and governance perspective is
available on the Company’s website and can be accessed
at https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/sustainability/
sustainability-overview.

22.	Significant and material orders passed
by the regulators or courts or tribunals
impacting the going Concern status of
the Company:
	During the financial year under review, no significant
and material orders were passed by the regulators or
courts or tribunals impacting the going concern status of
the Company.

23. Deposits:
	During the year under review, the Company has neither
invited nor accepted any deposits falling under the ambit
of Section 73 of the Act and the Companies (Acceptance
of Deposits) Rules, 2014 framed thereunder.

24.	
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or
Investments:
	During the financial year under review, the Company has
not granted any Loans, or made investments within the
meaning of Section 186 of the Act.

25. Borrowing Limits:
	The existing borrowing limits of the Company is C6,500
Crores (Rupees Six Thousand Five Hundred Crores only)
consisting of C1,500 Crores towards fund-based limits and
C5,000 Crores towards non-fund based borrowings facilities.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

26. Related Party Transactions:
	The Board of Directors have adopted a policy on Related
Party Transactions. The objective is to ensure proper
approval, disclosure, and reporting of transactions as
applicable, between the Company and any of its related
parties. The policy on related party transactions is available
at https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/
corporate-governance#policies
	Particulars of the Contracts or Arrangements with related
parties referred to in Section 188(1) in the format specified
as Form AOC-2 forms part of this Report as Annexure-E.
Further details of related party transactions are provided in
Notes to Financial Statements.
	All contracts or arrangements with related parties were
entered into only with prior approval of the Audit Committee,
except transactions that qualified as Omnibus transactions
as permitted under law. In addition, during the financial
year 2023-24, the Company has obtained the Shareholder
approval through Postal Ballot for material related party
transactions with Hitachi Energy Sweden AB for the
financial year 2023-24.
	
There were no materially significant related party
transactions that could have potential conflict with the
interests of the Company at large.
	Details of the transaction(s) of the Company with the
entity(ies) belonging to the promoter/promoter group
which hold(s) more than 10% shareholding in the Company
as required under para A of Schedule V of the Listing
Regulations are provided as part of the financial statements.

27.	Internal financial control systems and
their adequacy:
	Your Company has in place adequate internal financial
controls with reference to the Financial Statements
commensurate with the size, scale and complexity of
its operations and is in line with the requirements of the
regulations. Further, the Directors have laid down internal
financial controls to be followed by the Company and such
policies and procedures adopted by the Company for
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business,
including adherence to the Company’s policies, the
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of
frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the
accounting records and the timely preparation of reliable
financial information.
	The Audit Committee evaluates the internal financial control
system periodically. The details of Internal Control System
and their adequacy are provided in the Management
Discussion and Analysis section of this report which forms
part of this report.

28. Audit Committee:
	During the year under review, the Audit Committee was
reconstituted by inducting Ms. Meena Ganesh, Independent
Director as member of the Audit Committee with effect

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

from May 24, 2023 in place of Ms. Nishi Vasudeva,
Independent Director, who ceased to be a member of the
Audit Committee upon her resignation as a Director of the
Company with effect from May 24, 2023.
	The powers and role of the Audit Committee are included
in the Corporate Governance Report, which forms an
integral part of the Integrated Annual Report. All the
recommendations made by the Audit Committee were
accepted by the Board of Directors.

29. Reporting of frauds:
	During the year under review, there have been no instances
of fraud reported by the Statutory Auditors, Cost Auditors
and Secretarial Auditors under Section 143(12) of the Act
and Rules framed thereunder either to the Audit Committee
and/or Board or to the Central Government.

30.	Whistle-Blower Policy/Vigil Mechanism:
	Pursuant to Section 177(9) of the Act and Regulation 22 of
LODR, the Company has adopted a whistle-blower policy/
vigil mechanism for Directors, Employees and third parties
to report their concerns about unethical or inappropriate
behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the
Company’s Code of Conduct, leak of unpublished price
sensitive information and related matters.
	
This mechanism also provides adequate safeguards
against the victimization of whistle blowers who avail of the
whistle blower / vigil mechanism. The whistle blowers may
also access their higher level/ supervisors and/ or the Audit
Committee. The Whistle Blower Policy is available at https://
www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/about-us/integrity/reportingchannels/whistleblower-protection-policy.
	During the year under review, the Complaints received
under the said policy were / are being investigated.

31. Risk Management Policy:
	The Company has in place the Risk Management Policy
and constituted the Risk Management Committee as
required under the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation
21 of SEBI Listing Regulations. The Committee is chaired
by an Independent Director, which assists the Board in
monitoring and overseeing implementation of the risk
management policy, including evaluating the adequacy
of risk management systems and such other functions as
mandated under the SEBI Listing Regulations and as the
Board may deem fit from time to time.
	The Committee oversees the Risk Management process
including risk identification, impact assessment, effective
implementation of the mitigation plans and risk reporting.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board of
Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with regard
to enterprise risk management.
	
During the financial year under review, the Risk
Management Committee was reconstituted by inducting

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

127

Ms. Meena Ganesh, Independent Director as member of
the Committee with effect from May 24, 2023 in place of
Ms. Nishi Vasudeva, Independent Director, who ceased to
be a member of the Risk Management Committee upon her
resignation as a Director of the Company with effect from
May 24, 2023.
	The details of the Committee and its terms of reference
are set out in the Corporate Governance Report and
Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report forming
part of this Report.

32. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR):
	Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee has been
constituted in accordance with Section 135 of the Companies
Act, 2013. The details of the composition of the Committee,
scope and functions are listed in the Corporate Governance
Report annexed to this Integrated Annual Report.
	
The CSR Policy formulated by the Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee and approved by the Board
continues unchanged. The policy can be accessed at
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/
corporate-governance#policies
	For the financial year 2023-24, the Company has spent
C 1.51 Crores on CSR activities. The Annual Report on CSR
activities as required under Section 135 of the Companies
Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(1) of the Companies (Corporate
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 is annexed as
Annexure-F to this Report.

33. Annual Return:
	Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013,
the Company has placed a copy of the annual return
on its website and the same is available at https://www.
hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/generalmeetings#annual-general-meeting.

34.	
Conservation of energy, technology
absorption, foreign exchange earnings
and outgo:
	The particulars relating to the Conservation of Energy,
Technology Absorption, Foreign Exchange Earnings and
Outgo, as required to be disclosed under Section 134(3)(m)
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) Companies
(Accounts) Rules, 2014, is provided in Annexure-G to
this Report.

35.	
Particulars of Employees including
Remuneration
of
Directors
and
Employees:
	The details related to remuneration and other details of the
employees drawing remuneration under Section 197(12) of
the Act read with Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
Rules, 2014 forms part of this Report. None of the

128

employees listed as per above are related to any Director /
KMP of the Company.
	In terms of Section 136(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the
Integrated Annual Report is being sent to the Shareholders
and others entitled thereto excluding the aforesaid disclosure.
In pursuance of second proviso of Rule 5 of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
Rules, 2014, if any Shareholder interested in obtaining the
same may write to the Company Secretary & Compliance
Officer at investors@hitachienergy.com.
	In accordance with Section 136 of the Act, this disclosure
is available for inspection by Shareholders through
electronic mode.

36.	
Disclosure
as
per
the
Sexual
Harassment of Women at Workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013:
	The Company has in place a policy in accordance with
the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act,
2013, and the Rules thereunder that mandates no tolerance
against any conduct amounting to sexual harassment of
women at the workplace.
	The Company has also constituted an Internal Complaints
Committee (ICC) for reporting and conducting inquiries into
the complaints made by the victim on harassment at the
workplace. Throughout the year, training and awareness
events are held to instill sensitivity toward creating a
respectful workplace.
	During the financial year under review, no complaints
pertaining to sexual harassment of women employees were
received. Further, the Company has a web portal known as
“Hitachi Energy Ethics Web Portal” wherein employees can
report/ raise inter-alia workplace harassment concerns/
related incidents. The sexual harassment complaints as
received via this portal was investigated / being investigated
and brought to the attention of the Audit Committee of the
Board from time to time.

37. Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016:
	During the financial year under review, neither any application
nor any proceeding was initiated against the Company
under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.

38.	Details of difference between amount
of the valuation done at the time of
one-time settlement and the valuation
done while taking loan from the banks
or financial institutions along with the
reasons thereof:
	During the financial year under review, the Company has not
made any one-time settlement with the banks or financial
institutions, therefore, the same is not applicable.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

39. Fractional Shares:
	Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, entered into
between (i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”/ “Transferor”)
and (ii) the Company (“Company”/ “Transferee”) and their
respective shareholders and creditors, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 230 to 232 and other applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has
allotted shares of the Company to the shareholders of ABB
India Limited in accordance with the share entitlement ratio.
	Out of the total shares allotted to the shareholders of ABB
India Limited, the Company allotted 9,266 Equity shares
(pursuant to fractional entitlements of Members of ABB India
Limited as per share entitlement ratio) to Hitachi Energy India
Limited Fractional Shares Trust 2019 (“Trust”) on December
24, 2019. Catalyst Trusteeship Limited (“Catalyst”) is acting
as Trustee to the Trust effective April 30, 2020.
	The total amount paid as on March 31, 2024, stood at C 61.17
lakhs consisting of 19,897 Members eligible for the value of
such fractional shares and the total amount remained unpaid
as on March 31, 2024, stood at C 2.10 lakhs pertaining to 722
Members eligible for the value of such fractional shares.
	
Further, on November 26, 2022 and May 30, 2023,
reminder letters were sent through registered post to all

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

unpaid shareholders wherein the Company has requested
the unclaimed shareholders to claim the unclaimed
fractional share sale proceeds by submitting the LetterCum-Indemnity in the format shared with them.

40. Acknowledgments:
	The Board of Directors wishes to place on record their
appreciation for the guidance and cooperation received
from its parent Company, its customers, members,
suppliers, investors, vendors, partners, bankers, associates,
government authorities and other stakeholders for their
consistent support to the Company in its operations.
	The Board of Directors also records their appreciation of
the dedication of all the employees at all levels and their
commitment to ensuring that the Company continues
to grow.
By order of the Board
For Hitachi Energy India Limited

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

129

Annexure - A to Board’s Report
Management Discussion & Analysis
Industry structure and developments
Economic and market overview
The last decade has been a transformative one for the Indian
economy. In 2014, India was the world’s 10th largest economy
and now it has grown to become the 5th largest. The country has
managed to overcome setbacks due to COVID-19, buck global
recessionary trends, overcome risks and challenges posed
by volatile logistics and supply chains, while contending with
inflationary tendencies and rising interest rates.
Even as the pace of change accelerates, the global economy is
tracking a measured yet definite road to recovery. Demonstrating
resilience, growth is expected to maintain a subdued yet stable
pace, with growth in employment and incomes held by favorable
demand on both demand and supply side. Global inflation is
forecast to decline steadily, from 6.8% in 2023 to 5.9% in 2024
and 4.5% in 2025, while core inflation is set to decline gradually.
The impact of international trade as a growth driver is reducing,
with global trade growth dropping to 0.6% in 2023; but is
expected to recover to 2.4% in 2024. Shift in consumer spending
from goods to services, rising geopolitical tensions, supply chain
disruptions, and the lingering effects of the pandemic have
emerged as key factors impeding global trade.

unprecedented rate, and it has taken the overall public sector
capital investment from H 5.6 Lakhs Crores in FY15 to H 18.6
Lakhs Crores in FY24, as per budget estimates. That is a rise
of 3.3X, reinforcing the government’s thrust on infrastructure
development that is equitable and inclusive, through enhanced
capital expenditure. This aligns with the government’s focus on
the four I’s of Infrastructure, Investment, Innovation and Inclusion
over the next 25 years. The country has witnessed transformative
physical and digital infrastructure growth in the last ten years.
While the Reserve Bank of India held interest rates at 6.5% as
of April 2024, retail inflation had also eased to 4.85% in March
2024. The Index of Industrial (IIP) production saw an IIP value of
153.5 in January, the highest in FY 2023-24.
The power sector remains in focus as a critical service powering
industrial and economic growth. India’s installed power capacity
is expected to reach 616 GW by 2027 and to 900 GW by 2032,
up from 442 GW in March 2024.
Expecting this increase in demand for power, and the continuing
need to expand and strengthen the grid, National Committee on
Transmission (NCT) has approved about 10 new transmission
projects worth over H 6,600 Crores, allowing them to receive bids.

The International Monetary Fund (IMF)’s baseline forecast has
the world economy growth being maintained at the same rate
as 2023, at 3.2% in 2024 and 2025. Advanced economies are
expected to rise modestly from 1.6% to 1.7% in 2024, and to
1.8% in 2025, but this will be offset by modest slowdown in
emerging economies from 4.3% in 2023 to 4.2% in 2024 and
2025. However, over a five-year horizon, global growth is forecast
at 3.1%, which is a historical low over several decades.

Underscoring efforts to transition to a clean-energy future, India
added a record 18.48 GW of renewable energy capacity in
FY 2023-24, a 21% increase over capacity addition in FY 2022-23.
At ~11% growth, renewable power including large hydro grew
from 172 GW to 191 GW in FY 2022-23. The Government has
put in place an ambitious plan to grow 191 GW to over 650 GW
including BESS growing at a CAGR of over 19% per annum from
FY 2023-24 to FY 2031-32.

Developing countries face high levels of external debt and rising
interest rates, making access to international capital markets
difficult. There’s a decline in official development assistance and
foreign direct investment for low-income countries.

The government is betting big on solar to play a key role in
achieving India’s renewable energy targets. With an allocation of
H 24,000 Crores, the government’s Production Linked Incentive
(PLI) scheme will help achieve manufacturing capacity of Giga
Watt scale by promoting innovation and incentivizing technologies
that aid production of high efficiency solar PV modules.

India, the third-largest economy in Asia, grew 8.4% in the third
quarter for FY 2023-24 as opposed to a growth rate of 7.6%
recorded for the second quarter of the same financial year. This
comes on the back of double-digit growth in the manufacturing
sector (11.6%), followed by a good growth rate of the construction
sector (9.5%). The National Statistical Office’s second advance
estimates have pegged India’s real GDP growth in FY 2023-24
to be 7.6% as against growth rate of 7.0% in FY 2022-23. The
strong growth trajectory is expected to continue in FY 2024-25
backed by robust domestic demand stemming from continued
growth in business and consumer confidence levels. Based on
this, the IMF’s growth projections were raised by 30 basis points
to 6.8% in its update to the World Economic Outlook (WEO) in
April 2024.
The Indian economy is better placed than ever to take on the
challenges of growth because of the policies adopted and
infrastructure foundations implemented in the last decade.
The central government has built infrastructure at a historically

130

To further harness the potential of renewable energy from solar
and wind energy, the Cabinet approved the Scheme for Viability
Gap Funding (VGF) for development of Battery Energy Storage
Systems (BESS) in September 2023. By providing financial
support of up to 40% of the capital cost as budgetary support
in the form of VGF, a total of 4,000 megawatt-hour (MWh) of
BESS projects are to be developed by FY 2030-31. To ensure
that the benefits reach consumers, a minimum of 85% of the
BESS project capacity will be made available to Distribution
Companies (Discoms) to bring down the cost of storage.

Power sector overview
Consistent sectoral reforms and new policy initiatives have
underlined a period of rapid transformation across India’s
electricity supply chain. Greater thrust on integration of

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

renewables and advanced digital technologies have enabled
India to take powerful strides toward its decarbonization
objectives. However, there is more to be done to expand and
modernize power grid infrastructure, given the pace of economic
expansion and urbanization that the country is experiencing.
Grid modernization must be a key area of consistent focus to
lay a strong foundation to power India’s growth.
This growth must be balanced with consideration for a clean
energy future. The Paris Agreement sets a worldwide goal of
limiting global warming to 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels. With
the impacts of climate change becoming increasingly frequent
and more severe every year, reaching this goal has become
even more imperative. As the largest source of greenhouse
gas emissions, the energy sector needs to accelerate efforts to
by finding multiple pathways to decarbonize. According to the
‘CO2 emissions in 2023’ report published by the International
Energy Agency (IEA) in March 2024, global energy-related
CO2 emissions grew by 1.1% in 2023, increasing by 410 million
tonnes (Mt) taking total emissions to a record level of 37.4 billion
tonnes (Gt). Emissions from coal accounted for more than 65%
of such increase.
Investment in the energy sector, especially in clean energy,
is growing but not at a pace sufficient to meet India’s netzero emissions goal by 2070. As per the International Energy
Agency’s (IEA) updated Net Zero Roadmap released in October
2023, limiting global warming to 1.5°C will require annual clean
energy investment to reach nearly H 375. 21 Lakhs Crores ($ 4.5
trillion) by 2030. In January 2024, R.K. Singh, then Minister of
Power and New & Renewable Energy stated that an investment
of H 17.05 Lakhs Crores ($ 204.16 billion) is in the pipeline for
the power and renewable energy sector. As per independent
energy think tank Ember’s ‘Beyond Tripling’ report published
in November 2023, India would need an investment of H 24.43
Lakhs Cores ($ 293 billion) between 2023 and 2030 to meet the
14th National Electricity Plan targets. An additional investment of
H 91,718 Cores ($ 110 billion) would be required to align with the
IEA’s net zero pathway.
A ‘build big’ mentality will enable the electricity transmission and
distribution grids to expand by around two million kilometers
each year to 2030 to meet the net zero goals. While much of the
momentum today is in small, modular clean energy technologies
like solar PV and batteries, these alone are not sufficient to
deliver net zero emissions. It will also require new, smarter,
and repurposed infrastructure networks, large quantities of
low-emissions fuels, more nuclear power, and large land areas
for renewables. Rapid progress in carbon capture, utilization,
and storage (CCUS), hydrogen and hydrogen-based fuels,
and sustainable bioenergy will also be critical to achieving net
zero emissions.
To mitigate the impact of climate change, the Indian government
has made focused efforts to promote the use of renewable
energy and shift away from coal. This has resulted in renewable
energy sources, including large hydropower, having a combined
installed capacity of 190.57 GW as of March 2024.
In FY 2023-24, India added a record renewable energy capacity
of 18.56 GW, over 21% higher than 15.27 GW a year ago. During
the period, the total renewable energy installed capacity sees

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

solar at the top of the chart at 81.81 GW, followed by about
46 GW of wind energy, 10.9 GW of biomass cogeneration, and
5 GW of small hydro (up to 25 MW capacity each). Installed solar
energy capacity has increased by 30 times in the last nine years.
The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) released its roadmap last
year to integrate over 500 GW of renewable capacity by 2030.
An annual capacity addition of 50 GW for the next six years will
be required to meet this target. Digitalization will help speed up
the integration of renewables, keeping the focus on grid stability
and flexibility to absorb the influx of renewables.
On the demand side, in FY 2023-24, peak demand increased by
12.7% to 2,43,271 MW in FY 2023-24 from 2,15,888 MW during
the same period in FY 2022-23.
All India peak shortage has reduced to 1.4% (3,340 MW)
with respect to 4.0% (8,657 MW) during the same period the
previous year. This could be credited to the government’s efforts
to transform the power sector from power-deficient to powersufficient by adding 1,94,394 MW of generation capacity in the
past nine years.
The present installed capacity of power generation is around
4,41,970 MW. Out of the total generation capacity of 25,911 MW
added in the current year FY 2023-24, 5,948 MW is from fossil
fuel sources and 19,963 MW is from non-fossil fuel sources.
During the year, 18,563 MW of renewable capacity consisting
of 15,033 MW of solar, 3,254 MW of wind, 139 MW of biomass,
59 MW of small hydro and 78 MW of large hydro generation
capacity has been added.
Demand increased on the back of the success of country-wide
electrification - every village and household has been electrified.
The availability of power in rural areas has increased from
12 hours in 2015 to 20.6 hours and in urban areas it has increased
to 23.8 hours.
Grid expansion continued to cater the increasing demand for
power. During 2023, 14,390 km of transmission lines, 61,591
MVA of transformation capacity and 4,290 MW Inter-regional
Transfer Capacity have been added. In the last nine years, with
the addition of 1,87,849 ckm (64.48% increase), the transmission
network of 4,79,185 ckm has evolved as the largest national
synchronous grid in the world. The total inter-regional capacity
to transfer power from one region to another is enhanced to
1,16,540 MW (224.17% increase) from 35,950 MW in the last nine
years. Total transformation capacity (220 kV & above) is 12,13,313
MVA (128.69% increase) with an addition of 6,79,327 MVA in the
last nine years. Investments in grid expansion continue, with the
National Committee on Transmission (NCT) issuing the green
signal for four new Interstate transmission system (ISTS) projects
valued at H 737 Crores.
Further investments have been lined up to strengthen transmission
and distribution, scheduled to take place by 2027. Inter-regional
transmission capacity is expected to reach 1,43,850 MW; to
meet the requirements of substations, transmission lines, etc.
for renewables an estimated investment of H 2.44 Lakhs Crores
will be done at a rate of H 1.07 Cr/MW; to facilitate renewable
energy and wider distribution of power, plans are for the HVDC
circuit to grow to 23,675 ckm with a carrying capacity of 12,000

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

131

MW. Additionally, more than 30 STATCOM projects have been
lined up for installation along transmission networks with a total
budget of H 1.1 Lakhs Crores for reactive circuits by 2027.
Several schemes and incentives are in place, that form key
steps in the right direction to bring in cutting-edge clean energy
technology and address increasing, long-term power demand.
The government’s Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme
for National Program on High-Efficiency Solar PV Modules and
Viable Gap Funding scheme for BESS projects intend to increase
generation and storage of renewable energy.
The Strategic Interventions for Green Hydrogen Transition
(SIGHT) Program is a major financial measure under the Mission
with an outlay of H 17,490 Crores. The program consists of
two distinct financial incentive mechanisms to support the
domestic manufacturing of electrolyzers and the production of
Green Hydrogen. Request for Selection (RfS) has been issued
for the Selection of Green Hydrogen Producers for Setting up
Production Facilities of 450,000 tons for Green Hydrogen in India
under the Strategic Interventions for Green Hydrogen Transition
(SIGHT) Scheme (Mode-1-Tranche-I). Request for Selection (RfS)
has been issued for the Selection of Electrolyser Manufacturers
(EM) for Setting up 1.5 GW annual Electrolyser Manufacturing
Capacities under SIGHT Scheme (Tranche-I).
The ’Offshore Wind Energy Lease Rules, 2023 to regulate the
allocation of offshore wind sea blocks to developers have been
notified in September 2023. A revised strategy for development
of offshore wind energy projects has been issued, indicating a
bidding trajectory for installation of 37 GW capacity of Off-shore
Wind Energy.
The PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana scheme provides free
electricity to one Crores households that opt to install rooftop
solar electricity units. Under the said scheme, the households
will be able to get 300 units of electricity for free every month.
The scheme focuses on the household segment with up to 3 kW
system, which covers most of the residential consumers in India.
The power sector further sees increasing demand from industry,
data centers and transportation.
Industry demand for power is being revived through private
CAPEX investments in hydrogen, steel, O&G and cement that
have aggressive expansion plans with opportunities of over
H 4000 Crores in FY 2024.
With digitalization only gathering speed across sectors, data
center capacity in India is expected to double to ~1,700-1,800
MW by FY 2024-25, powered by a data boom, digital adoption
and local data storage mandates. Data center capacity is
expected to double by 2025 with investments from major players
to the tune of H 40,000 Crores, as per a report by Crisil. As
per NASSCOM, investments in data centers in India will reach
H 41,690 Crores ($ 5 billion) per annum by 2025 .
Transportation is led by the electrification of vehicles,
modernization of railways and expansion of metro rails and
urban rail.
Policy focus on EV manufacturing supported by new tax
incentives will position India as an EV manufacturing destination

132

while boosting domestic sales. FY 2023-24, India saw an
impressive 41% annual increase in sales with 1.66 million EVs
sold, averaging 4,562 EVs per day, a marked uptake from the
3,242 daily sales in FY 2022-23. March alone set a new monthly
record with over 1.97 Lakhs units sold, partly owing to the rush to
buy before the end of the FAME-II subsidy scheme. Introduction
of the Electric Mobility Promotion Scheme 2024, with a budget
of H 500 Crores, will continue to support the purchase of electric
two- and three-wheelers until July 2024.
Modernization, electrification and expansion dominate the efforts
of the rail sector, both for railways and urban transit metro rail.
As a main driver for the PM GatiShakti scheme that lays out a
massive budget of H 100 Lakhs Crores, new railway corridors
have been announced by the Central Government to enhance
connectivity between ports, industry and high traffic commuters.
With 94% electrification of its broad-gauge network, the Railways
are racing to meet the 100% electrification goal and achieve the
Indian Railway target of net zero by 2030. In addition, railway
modernization is being driven by safety and developments in
high-speed rail and high-density corridors.
India’s metro rail network is well on the way to becoming the
world’s second largest, expanding at an unprecedented pace.
Expansion is planned at a rate of 175 to 200 km per annum
over the next seven years. The metro network is set to expand
from the current operational 851 km to around 1,985 km over
the next five to seven years, taking India’s investment in metros
to H 6,838 Crores.
With the accelerated pace of urbanization, industrialization and
electrification, India’s power consumption is expected to rise by
6.1% in 2024 when it is expected to surpass the power demands
of Japan and Korea combined.

Segment and product wise performance
Operational overview
As the pace of change accelerates on every front, electricity
will be the backbone of the energy system. With India set to
take its place as the fastest growing G20 country, the power
sector must balance clean energy with maximum growth impact.
With approximately five years to 2030, India is drawing close to
realizing the first phase of meeting its renewable energy targets.
Hitachi Energy India Limited has been at the forefront of enabling
the many pathways to energy transition across geographies and
segments to ensure a sustainable energy future for all.
Since commencing standalone operations in 2019, Hitachi
Energy India Limited has played a strong role in ensuring a
resilient, flexible grid, adapting with new technologies and
offering customers the benefits of digitalization. Over the
FY 2023-24, the overarching energy transition in India has been
driving broad-based order momentum. Your Company’s 360°
framework for collaborative energy transition included leading
the conversations, working with customers and suppliers, as
well academia to unify the vision for India’s clean-energy future.
Hitachi Energy India Limited’s priorities through the four quarters
were focused around strengthening market leadership in core
segments while also expanding orders in service, exports and
digital, and harnessing new segments and markets.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

On the business front, the emphasis was on striving towards
sustainable operations and operational excellence across
manufacturing and functional processes, optimizing order
backlog execution for revenue and profitability accretion,
overcoming external supply chain constraints, driving focus on
cash, and most importantly, continuing to reinforce a culture of
health, safety and environment by percolating the safety mindset
across all levels of project sites and factories.
Lastly, keeping sustainable progress at the heart of our efforts,
the focus was also on profitable and sustainable growth initiatives,
partnering with customers and suppliers as well as upskilling and
cross-skilling talent to accelerate towards a sustainable and agile
energy transition.
Your Company is proud to report that at the close of FY 2023-24,
total orders stood at H 5,536.3 Crores, up 14% (excluding HVDC)
from the corresponding last twelve months, while revenue stood
at H 5,246.8 Crores with a 17% increase during the same period.
This underscores its commitment to build and deliver sustainable
shareholder value.

Health, safety and sustainability
At Hitachi Energy India Limited, the active management of
health, safety, and environmental performance is at the core
of everything we do and the basis of our license to operate.
Your Company places health and well-being at the heart of
its operations to create an empowering and rewarding work
environment for all employees. It recognizes that a holistic
approach to employee health and well-being can foster a thriving
workforce and increase employee engagement, productivity,
and talent retention.
In keeping with the Company’s ‘Zero Harm Policy’, emphasis
was placed on Life-saving Rules (LSR) across the organization.
Constant LSR trainings, workshops and activities have helped
raise awareness on safety and build a safety culture. Safety
by design is also emphasized with digitalization being applied
whenever possible to create safe environments and encourage
safe behaviors.
Health and wellness were prioritized through initiatives that
support physical and mental health and well-being. These
include medical assistance as well as year-long programs that
encourage mental wellness. In addition, leadership awareness
sessions at various levels reinforced the need to prioritize health.
As we help customers, partners and communities move towards
a carbon-neutral future, your Company has strengthened its
commitment to being environmentally sustainable with our
Sustainability 2030 initiative.
As a first-step target to pursue carbon-neutrality in the Company’s
own operations, your Company has made the shift to 100%
fossil-free electricity. This was achieved through various initiatives
such as solar roof top installations at Maneja and Doddaballapur
factories which have an installed capacity of 932 kW and 600
kW meeting ~20-30% of electricity requirement of each factory.
Mysuru factory entered into power purchase agreements (PPA)
which enabled sourcing renewable electricity to meet nearly 90%
of the facility’s electricity requirement. The carbon emissions due
to consumption of remaining grid electricity has been offset by
purchasing International Renewable Energy Certificates I- REC.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Apart from electricity initiatives were taken to transition to lowcarbon fuels in Mysuru, Maneja and Halol. At Mysuru, biofuel
in the form of waste paddy husk and waste dust from board
manufacturing are used as alternate fuels to furnace oil for the
boilers. Maneja and Halol replaced LPG with low carbon PNG
for their operations. Maneja also replaced their old R22-based
22 TR HVAC system with R410A HVAC which has high COP (Coefficient of Performance) thereby avoiding 20 tCO2e emission
per annum.
The Company has also invested in many energy conservation
initiatives. At Maneja, an energy monitoring system has been
installed to monitor electricity consumption patterns. Seven
HT/LT substations and 53 energy meters are connected to the
smart energy monitoring system. This facilitates real time data
on energy consumption patterns, allowing actions to be taken to
reduce energy consumption per unit of production.
Lighting improvements were made by replacing conventional
lights to LED at Mysuru and Halol. Additionally, replacement of
old equipment such as five S/D starters and faulty capacitors
and chiller at Mysuru helped increase energy efficiency.
A dedicated 5.5 kW compressor for the casting plant at Savli has
also resulted in considerable energy savings.
Various process improvements were also made for energy
savings including automating the operation of HVAC by
installing Bluetooth-based time switch; motorizing MCCB and
wiring modification in the canteen at Maneja; stopping fresh
air circulation in ovens by turning off burners and provision
of thermal insulation to the hot lines, as well as stopping the
operation of spray nozzle pumps of AHUs during the monsoon
and winter at Halol.
Our sites have also migrated to battery operated forklifts to
reduce dependency on diesel.
Our project sites have also taken initiatives to make their
operations clean using solar power. At Mumbai Infeed HVDC
project site 15 kW; 545-watt Mono PERC modules (24 nos) are
used to power the staff office. Six sets of solar-based mobile
charging equipment, with three lights and two USBs are installed
in rest sheds and at the worker colony. Further, seven CNG
vehicles are used for site transportation instead of petrol or diesel
vehicles. Six of the GPQS project sites use solar roof top for their
offices and worker sheds.
The above initiatives have resulted in nearly 88% reduction in our
emissions and 9% reduction in energy consumption since 2019.
The Company has also taken several measures to reduce water
consumption. Water is an important resource that needs to be
conserved since most regions in India are water stressed. At
Maneja, 23 water meters are installed in the water distribution
network to map water consumption pattern of individual factories
and their utilities are tracked for leakage. This has resulted in
reduction of water wastages by 132 kl/Day which is 28.43% of
total water consumption. In the Maneja canteen, rejected water
from the RO Plant is used in cleaning of washing of utensils and
floors which has resulted in saving of fresh water to ~14 kl/Day
(4.56% of total water consumption).

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

133

Savli has arrested water leakages and has optimized water
usage resulting in reduction of fresh water consumption by
30.8% compared to last year.
Rejected RO water and STP treated water were used for
sanitation purposes at Mysuru and Doddaballapur respectively.
The company has taken several steps to minimize waste across
in its operations by reducing, re-using and recycling. Nearly
65,000 paper cups were eliminated per month at Peenya and
Doddaballapur facilities resulting in avoidance of ~5MT of waste
generation. Board dust reused as biofuel in the boiler in the form
of briquettes at Mysuru. From Jan 2021 – Dec 2023, 712 MT
of dust was re-used and not disposed as waste. Waste paddy
husk used in boilers at Mysuru and the resulting boiler dust from
paddy husk is reused as soil conditioner thereby promoting
circularity. At Peenya, wood waste is reused to make various
articles such as planter boxes, pen stands etc. preventing
their disposal.
Overall, the company has invested ~ H 1.4 Crores on various
environmental initiatives.
Your Company is also among the first to form a board-level ESG
committee for an integral link between sustainability and business
strategy while enabling course correction when needed.

New technologies; new capabilities
Your Company’s sustained focus on Research & Development
to foster impactful innovations is further bolstered by continued
access to cutting edge research at a global level. Such R&D
activities are carried out externally across facilities and technology
centres across the globe as well as at a local business level.
A culmination of these efforts will enable your Company to
consolidate its position as a market leader in pioneering
digital technologies.
In a bid to expand its capabilities and offerings in the year under
review, your Company’s High Voltage business hub office was
inaugurated to serve as the nodal point for the Business Unit.
Technology enhancements to the industry-leading SAM600
and the Lumada asset performance management software
solution have helped improve the demonstrative range of digital
capabilities at the macro and micro levels. By addressing basic
and critical requirements for accelerated digital adoption and
better asset management at the digital substation and individual
asset layers, your Company is continually augmenting the
breadth of its current portfolio.
During the period under review, global entity Hitachi Energy Ltd.
acquired controlling stake in eks Energy from Powin in order to
broaden capabilities in advanced power electronics and energy
management software.
The HVDC and Power Quality factory was inaugurated in
Chennai in February 2023 to build capacity in tandem with the
steady rise in HVDC projects locally and globally – a key cog
in the transition to clean energy. By leveraging long-standing
know-how in energizing India’s landmark power superhighways,
your Company overcame a series of engineering and other
challenges to begin assembly of G5 HVDC converters as part

134

of the Mumbai Infeed Project. Production for type testing and
validation will mark the first phase.

Discussion on financial performance with
respect to operational performance
Performance during the reporting period
Your Company’s success results from its focused strategy,
diversified portfolio, relentless pursuit of improving the bottomline, and balancing operational complexity and efficiencies to
preserve the growth momentum. While the year witnessed
challenges such as external supply chain risks, food and oil supply
shocks, the chips & electronics shortage, the semiconductor
crunch eased but inventory backlog issues persisted.
The order pipeline was led by data centers and renewables,
along with digitalization, electrification and transmission projects,
backed by robust growth in exports and service orders. The
Company closed the year with an order backlog at H 7,229.5
Crores, which provided a strong future revenue visibility. Orders
for FY 2023-24 were up by ~14% YoY over the corresponding
period of FY 2022-23, excluding HVDC. During the year under
review, your Company had some significant order wins including,
but not limited to:
Renewable evacuation and integration:
•

400 kV GIS export orders from Singapore & Greece

•

Exide Energy: 220 kV GIS S/S and Dry Type Transformers

•

Alfanar Energy: 2 x 220 kV / 33 kV AIS S/S

•	Linxon Sweden: 245 kV AIS Switchgear a/c
Tanzania SGR
•

Tata Power Solar: 220 kV / 33 kV AIS substation

•	Ayana Renewable: 300 MW EBOS & 4000 kV AIS S/S
for Bikaner
•

Bhutan Power: 66 kV GIS S/S

•

Techno Electric: 2 x CRP+SAS packages for 765 kV S/S

•

Adani Green: 220 kV & 400 kV AIS S/S

•	MEIL: 9 x 400 kV GIS & 400 kV reactors for a national
hydro power company
•	BHEL: 9 x 400 kV GIS for distribution company in
east India
•

REE Spain: 16 x 66 kV GIS

Green corridors & state networks:
•

Sterlite Power: 600MVAr Fatehgarh-3 Statcom

•

400kV GTs for Ratle Hydro electric project

•

PGCIL: 6 x 500 MVA 765 kV transformers

•

UPPTCL: 4 x 765 kV Transformers

•

Eiffage France: 220 kV & 110 kv Transformers for Senegal

•

Prime Group: 330/145 kV LTB/IT/DS order for Azerbaijan

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Transport:

Exports

•	Chittaranjan Locomotive Works: 157 x LOT 6500
Traction transformers

Hitachi Energy India Limited has been persistently strengthening
its local capabilities to amplify its vision of ‘make in India for
India and the rest of the world’. The Company’s long history of
technology and manufacturing has contributed to a solid base
of expertize and operational excellence that is being leveraged
to play a greater role in the regional power sector, and as a
manufacturing and engineering hub for the rest of the world. Your
Company has strengthened local capabilities towards servicing
the demand for exports. This has resulted in steady growth in
the contribution of exports to the order book, constituting 25%
of the annual work orders.

•	Banaras Locomotive Works: 47 x LOT6500 –
Traction transformers
•

Alstom: Traction Transformer for DMRC & CMRL

•

L&T: Automation & 132 kV GIS for CMRL

•

L&T: Dry and Power Transformers for CMRL Phase II

Data centers:
•

Adani: Power Transformer order for Microsoft Datacenters

•	Adani Connex: 220 kV GIS Substations at Pune for
Microsoft DC
Automation & digitalization:
•

Linxon Sweden: Automation package for Tanzania SGR

•	Bhutan Power System Operator (BPSO): SCADA EMS
System at NLDC Bhutan
Your Company booked orders for the financial period under
review – April 2023 to March 2024 – total of H 5,536.3 Crores,
and revenue was H 5,246.8 Crores. Profit-before-tax was H 221.7
Crores and profit-after- tax H 163.8 Crores.

Service
With over H 83,383 Crores (10 BUSD) installed base in India
across generation, transmission and industrial electric power
systems, Hitachi Energy India Limited recognizes that leveraging
this existing infrastructure will prove to be a good start to
addressing the energy transition goals. By identifying the unique
roadblocks and requirements in every customer’s journey to
sustainability, the Company’s expert service teams chart out
individual customer and asset roadmaps. This enables them
to provide customized solutions in a phased manner, covering
the entire lifecycle of all energy assets while enabling long-term
business planning. Working closely with its customers, your
Company helps them manage and safeguard asset performance
to ably fulfil business requirements.
Service proved to be a consistent growth lever for the Company,
with orders for renewable studies proving industry intent towards
the energy transition, as well as trainings and upskilling also
preparing the workforce. HVDC studies and spares dominated
across the year, as well as products for industry and utilities.
Services were also seen to grow in demand from other countries
such as Maldives, Qatar, Bhutan and Saudi Arabia. Besides
other traditional products, SCADA also saw replacement and
service related orders.
Over FY 2023-24, service orders were up by 43% YoY, and
accounted for 8% of your Company’s revenue. Service orders
included replacement equipment, Annual Maintenance Contracts
(AMCs) and upgrades, as well as innovative solutions like RelCare
and RelScan for remote condition monitoring and maintenance.

Orders flowed in from established export markets of Asia, Middle
East and Africa as well as some countries in Europe. India’s rise
as a favorable manufacturing and assembly hub as well as a
strong technology player, global price sensitivities and supply
chain complications have led many countries to source from
here. Hitachi Energy India Limited’s deep local footprint and wideranging expertize, energized by top quality in power products
and technologies led to several new and repeat customers.
By expanding strategic partnerships with the existing customer
base and making headway into new areas of collaboration
with its existing and new customer base supported by service
requests, the export order book is witnessing a steady uptrend.
Over the year FY 2023-24, your Company’s export orders were
up by 43%. Exports of transformers, power quality technologies
and other key products to markets like Middle East, Southeast
Asia and neighboring countries in South Asia accounted for
around 25% of the order book.
These came from countries including but not limited to Singapore,
Greece, Tanzania, Morocco, Bhutan, Indonesia, UAE, Guyana,
France, Azerbaijan, Spain and Portugal. Your Company also
received the largest-ever single order for disconnectors for a
project in Guyana.
The demand came in from the renewable and rail segments as
well as automation packages in Africa. Besides this, exports also
included transmission orders in Asia, power quality in Europe and
US markets, and automation packages in Africa. Export orders
were also drive by surge in demand for transformers and highvoltage products. Orders for transformers came from Europe
and African markets, while demand for power quality solutions
were from South and Central America, Africa, US and Europe.
Your Company’s strategy of making in India for India and the
world has ensured steady order inflows from across 80 countries
to its global feeder factories in five products from Hitachi Energy’s
portfolio. Hitachi Energy India Limited’s newly established
factories including the HV Power Quality and HVDC factory are
expanding their export order contribution.

Business units and operations
Hitachi Energy India Limited operates through four business
units namely Grid Automation, Grid Integration, Transformers
and High-Voltage Products that produce power grid solutions
through a variety of equipments, ranging from substation
automation solution to power transformers. The solutions
ensure quality power supply to the customers for operations in

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

135

the field of transmission networks, utilities, transport networks,
renewable energy, data-centers, industries and many other
enterprizes. Hitachi Energy India Limited operates on a
sustainable businessmodel that supports Carbon-Neutral and
Net-Zero Operations by implementing modern technologies at
offices and sites that save energy and consume green power.
The operations to manufacture world-class equipment’s and
provide best in class services requires capital investment to
expand the manufacturing units, strengthening the production
through a sustainable growth model. With a vision to provide the
customers with solutions, products and services, Hitachi Energy
India Limited intends to operate with profitability in its operation
by continuously upgrading the existing products and introducing
new products in market through modern R&D practices to meet
the demands of customers.

Operational excellence
Hitachi Energy India Limited continues to seek to maximum
efficiencies in converting the significant order backlog to
revenue, while in the short term staying agile regarding the
evolving situation on trade routes. Nevertheless, such execution
when coupled with operational excellence across manufacturing
and functional processes will result in value accretion. This was
achieved by your Company through various efforts that included
setting standard operational process through LOM (Leading
Operating Model) deployment, and process visibility and
transparency through digital project reviews. Further efficiencies
were achieved by removing waste through QOT (Kaizen)
culture. Lean 6-Sigma culture development was reinforced
through capability building and employee engagement, which
helped also drive customer focus. Enhanced customer value
was driven by deep understanding of customer expectations
and management of perceptions with proactive feedback from
tender to execution. Additionally, customer value was delivered
while optimizing costs through design optimization, DtV (Design
to value) and excellence in supply chain management (SCM).
Hitachi Energy India Limited places sustainability at the heart
of the Company’s purpose - advancing a sustainable energy
future for our partners and customers. However, with intent
to demonstrate commitment towards sustainability, focus has
been on making the operations sustainable, and minimizing
the environmental footprint of the Company. Since embarking
on the journey towards net-zero in 2021, the Company has
today achieved 45% reduction in our carbon footprint to enable
a sustainable energy future – for today’s generations and those
to come.
The journey to Net Zero by 2030 requires consistent efforts and
various teams have initiated considered programs, in addition to
company-wide actions. At the Company’s largest manufacturing
location, Maneja, a Sustainability Master Class was conducted
to develop a larger pool of specialists who can advance the
operations to net zero. Additionally, at the Kudus Site (Mumbai
HVDC), a 15kW roof top solar has been installed which will
reduce 458 tons of CO2 per year. Solar based mobile charging
facilities in rest sheds and workforce colonies at the site that can
power multiple devices at a time are also introduced at Kudus.
The project has also committed to transition to the services of
EV cab provider starting from Delhi-NCR.

136

Hitachi Energy India Limited consistent efforts were
acknowledged and recognized for excellence in Health, Safety,
and Environment practices by our discerning customers across
verticals. Reinforcing the belief that at Hitachi Energy India
Limited, safety is the basic license to operate, the Company
observed HSE week in November 2023 with the theme of “Do
the Right Thing’. In appreciation for the focus on safety, the
Company received ‘Certificate of Appreciation’ for contribution
towards improving the OHS culture in MP Power Transmission
Package-II Ltd. The Company was appreciated for its good
HSE practices during warranty period of HVDC Station at
Raigarh, Chhattisgarh.
Collaboration is central to making the energy transition possible.
Through the 360° framework for collaborative energy transition
the Company led industry discussion on the energy transition
across the entire value chain of the energy industry in India and
region at multiple forums and platforms.
Through the year, Hitachi Energy India Limited has partnered with
various industry stakeholders – from technology interactions with
customers to them visiting the Company’s factories. Training and
learning programs for over 50 students from Industrial Training
Institute (ITI), Kayavarohan were conducted at the Maneja facility,
ensuring that all stakeholders are working in tandem towards
the same goal.
The continued efforts of your Company have further cemented
the Company’s reputation as a reliable partner and a pioneer
in power technologies, which was recognized by ET Energy
award. The work of your Company continues to be recognized
by customers and industry peers. Hitachi EnergyTEC Training
& Experience center in Maneja was recognized by CEA as
category- I (Grade B) for imparting training in operation and
maintenance of the transmission and distribution segment of
power sector.

Safety, integrity and quality
At Hitachi Energy India Limited, safety, integrity and quality form
the foundation of your Company. An unwavering commitment
to these three principles has helped build its operations around
this culture so employees can internalize and feel empowered
to champion them in any situation.
Your Company’s Sustainability 2030 commitments set out ‘Zero
Harm’ as one of the key priorities. The focus is to apply safety
first in every situation to ensure that there is no possibility of
an incident. These ‘safety barriers’ are defined by its flagship
Life-Saving Rules (LSRs) initiative, applicable to all employees,
full-time and on contract, across our locations. The mandatory
LSR – eLearning course aims to create greater awareness and
enables employees to understand the true meaning of being safe
at work, keenly evaluate their understanding of safety practices,
correctly assess and take decisions in critical situations, and the
impact of not taking correct action at the right time.
Through periodic shopfloor demonstrations, donation
drives, and life support trainings, your Company ensures
consistent engagement with a focus on employee well-being
by emphasizing the essential LSRs. It also employs multiple
platforms and formats to underscore HSE behaviors that drive
world-class performance across teams – ‘Do the right thing!’,

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

during the annual Safety Week observation. Reinforcing through
training is a proven route to inculcating the safety mindset.
This was enabled through sessions on behavior-based safety,
occupational health & general health, and electrical safety by
the Karnataka State Safety Institute and risk assessment &
ABRA, first aid, operating machinery, working at height and fall
protection, defensive driving and AED training for employees,
trainees, and contractors.
Your Company continues to receive recognition and appreciation
from customers, partners and industry peers for its superlative
OHS culture through the entire project life cycle and for driving
the HSE mindset along the energy value chain.
At Hitachi Energy India Limited, health and well-being encompass
the trio of physical health, mental health, and occupational
health. This Health Wheel has enabled your Company to
approach health and well-being more holistically and effectively
implement policies and standards. The health flagship program
‘Mind Matters’ continues to address the different dimensions of
organizational and employee mental well-being to enable all our
employees to thrive.
Through leadership development programs such as the HSE
Masterclass attended by over 700 managers globally, the twoyear Functional Development Program for all the HSE, Security,
and Sustainability practitioners and the Advanced Functional
Development Program for the Top 50 HSE, Security, and
Sustainability leaders, your Company has built HSE into the very
fabric of the organization.
Digitalization continues to play a key role in Safety, as
demonstrated by the Digital Kit – a fully immersive remote
support solution to customers for various service requirements
of high-voltage products. It utilizes a mixed-reality experience to
give service experts a real-time view as seen by the technician
on-site. This has enabled effective and timely resolution of
issues while increasing safety and efficiency and reducing the
environmental impact of on-site visits.
Integrity drives all decisions at your Company. Adhering to the
single, universal Hitachi Group Code of Ethics and Business
Conduct enables leaders and employees to make decisions
and take actions consistent with the Hitachi Group Identity
and Values. The aim of ‘living with integrity’ is for everyone in
the organization to feel comfortable, empowered and free to
speak up should they encounter an integrity issue, with speakup channels available. All concerns reported are subjected to
appropriate investigation, follow-up, and brought to full closure,
adhering to the zero-tolerance policy for any violations. The
outcome of all the concerns is reported to the Audit Committee.
As a responsible organization, your Company is committed to
delivering the highest standards of quality. Your Company strives
to deliver timely and quality products, systems, and services
that meet or exceed customer expectations along with the
Company’s employees, partners and suppliers. The focus is
to continually enhance customer experience by understanding
their specific needs and offering tailor-made solutions while
motivating employees to hone key skills through continuous
training and development to create greater value.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Initiatives and collaborations
Your Company continues to take targeted steps to offer nextgen solutions and digital capabilities to its existing and potential
customers while actively collaborating with Indian industry
and academia.
Your Company continues to further its Net Zero ambitions by
using 100% fossil-free electricity in its operations. It has replaced
diesel generators with solar panels to power its site offices and
introduced rooftop solar at its factory in Maneja. The Company
has switched to clean piped natural gas from high-speed
diesel for ovens and dryers at manufacturing facilities. It has
maintained its Zero Liquid Discharge approach across locations
and continued on its path to reduce freshwater consumption.
Waste flow mapping projects have been initiated at five locations
to manage and reduce waste and improve resource efficiency,
ultimately mitigating air and water pollution. Other ongoing
projects include the water conservation project at the Maneja
factory where reuse of RO-rejected water has resulted in the
reduction of 13.7 kiloliters of fresh-water usage. The Advanced
Energy Monitoring System at Maneja integrates seven power
substations, 63 energy, water and gas flow meters to monitor
resource consumption in real-time.
A survey for rainwater harvesting and recharge pits at the
factories in Halol and Doddaballapur was completed in
November 2023. The Company has also replicated the watersaving project models from Maneja at the Power Quality factory
in Doddaballapur. It has planned to install the first-ever OpEx
model 609kWp rooftop solar plant for Hitachi Energy India
Limited’s facilities, reducing dependency on external power
sources by 40-50% once commissioned. The Company has
also eliminated single-use plastic and paper cups at the factory.
It has made the retrofitting of emission control devices (RECD)
mandatory on 11 diesel generator (DG) sets to ensure a minimum
70% reduction in particulate matter.
An environmental performance dashboard enables location-wise
tracking of greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption,
freshwater use and waste generated and disposed.
Solar-based mobile charging facilities that can power multiple
devices at the same time have been installed in rest sheds and
the workforce colony.
Green initiatives have also been undertaken at HVDC project
sites, with ~460 tons of CO2 avoided. Your Company is going
one step further by developing specialists who can advance net
zero in its operations through the Sustainability Master Class
at Maneja.
Upcoming projects include technical assessment and feasibility
of EV charging points at Doddaballapur, identification of pilot
projects to reuse wood waste in packing, replacement of diesel
operated fork-lift truck (FLT) with electric FLT, utilizing metal
waste in the Company’s operation and Battery Energy Storage
System as DG backup at Doddaballapur.
Your Company recognizes that the journey to net zero has
to involve all stakeholders. Hence, it has embraced a 360°
framework for collaborative energy transition - leading global
thought leadership conversations, industry-focused customer

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

137

events, nurturing the supplier ecosystem, the interaction of the
Hitachi Energy India Limited with government and key customers,
and industry training initiatives.
In line with the Company’s strategic CSR roadmap, Hitachi
Energy India Limited has consolidated its partnership with toptier research institutes such as IIT Roorkee. Several initiatives
were flagged off at the campus such as presenting electric
vehicles to the institute to enable green mobility and inaugurating
a 200 kVA microgrid with battery energy storage facilitating a
smart energy management system.

Research and development (R&D)
Your Company’s legacy of innovation and deep expertize in the
power technology sector have enabled it to continually provide
enhanced value to customers, foresee industry trajectory,
anticipate the next phase of growth and stay ahead of the curve.
Its focus and targeted actions towards sustainability while staying
at the forefront of the clean energy tech and digital-led revolution
have helped it consolidate its position as a leader in this sector.
Encompassing every customer’s journey in its entirety – right
from site reviews, customized solutions, maintenance cycles,
technical handholding, and planning for the future today – helps
us go beyond creating value to becoming a strategic partner in
their growth journey.
As a testament to your Company’s commitment to innovation,
it has received numerous R&D and innovation awards. O P
Naidu, Senior Principal Engineer at Hitachi Energy India Limited
attended and presented three technical papers at 2023 IEEE
PES 15th Asia-Pacific Power Engineering Conference, Chiang
Mai, Thailand. His paper titled “Single Ended Fault Location
Method for Lines Connected with Inverter Based Renewable
Resources” is received the Best Paper Award. Aarthi V, R&D
engineer was awarded the prestigious Grid India Power System
Award (GIPSA) 2024 award for her M.Tech thesis project; GIPSA
aims to explore breakthroughs and recognizes outstanding
research achievements in Power Systems.
The ability to consistently innovate and steer the course of
industry in a direction that not only takes the entire ecosystem to
the next level but also safeguards the future of generations now
and those to come has served well to position your Company
as a global industry thought leader.
To understand this your Company’s R&D activities are
conducted globally in R&D and technology centers and are
then locally embedded in businesses. This approach leverages
local competence to create social, environmental, and economic
value on a global scale. By developing new and localized
products, features, and solutions, your Company can secure
existing revenue streams while creating additional revenue by
increasing customer engagement and installed bases.
Your Company’s large pool of expert technologists, shopfloor
specialists, solution providers, technicians and R&D teams,
capacity to innovate and investment in the creation of modern
technologies have ensured it remains a well-regarded voice in
the industry now and in the years to come. It remains committed
to identifying and developing key power grid technologies that
will enable a digital-led future more focused on renewable energy

138

sources. During the financial year 2023-24 your Company has
paid Rs.190.71 Crores as royalty and technology fees to Hitachi
Energy Ltd.

Responsible governance
The Company’s governance structure plays a crucial role
in shaping the decision-making process, ensuring that it is
aligned with our strategic objectives and the interests of all the
Stakeholders at large.
Our governance structure, aligned with global Code of Ethics
and Business Conduct, is crucial in supporting the delivery
of our strategic objectives while ensuring ethical conduct and
transparency at every level. Further, our corporate governance
framework also promotes ethical practices throughout the
organization, while transparent communication ensures effective
engagement with Stakeholders. Your Company is also certified
for ISO:37001:2016 for Anti-bribery management systems.
For more details on governance please refer to the Corporate
Governance which form a part of Board’s Report.

Talent
Investing in building a culture and supportive ecosystem to
support lifelong learning has enabled your Company to build
a diversified talent pool of multifaceted professionals - at our
factories and technology centers. Its success is a measure of
investment in training and upskilling to attract, develop, retain
and support the career journeys of the right talent. By fostering
a work environment of inclusive leadership, transparency
and sense of belonging, the organization is home to a highly
motivated and engaged workforce.
To lead the energy transition in this time of accelerated pace of
change, every industry requires people who are well informed,
who will guide the transitions and impacts that they wish to
achieve. Hitachi Energy India Limited believes that it is the people
and talent that will enable this change in the industry, and as
such has many initiatives that develop a strong and agile talent
pool that is engaged and committed to customers.
In line with the commitment to foster a culture of lifelong learning,
Hitachi Energy India Limited provides a diverse array of learning
avenues, including digital platforms equipped with global and
local programs. Besides in-house learning and development
(L&D) programs, the Company also works with external partners
and trainers to ensure a highly skilled workforce.
A focus on leadership development in FY 2023-24 benefited
over 400 leaders. They were equipped with the tools to excel
in their roles, collaborate with their teams and drive innovation
within the organization. Self-paced learning through the digital
learning platform Percipio has also seen increased engagement
with over 3947 courses taken by employees. Knowledge-sharing
platforms were also provided and many enthusiastic employees
joined these platforms to share and learn from each other.
In addition, efforts were also made to create and nurture an
inclusive workforce, that promotes diversity in gender, age and
culture. ExcelHer, a program designed to nurture and empower
the Company’s women leaders, was launched, to provide tailored
support and development opportunities to thrive in their careers.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Diversity 360, launched in 2019, is also designed to help the
Company embrace differences in creativity, skills, culture,
experience, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion, education,
background, and gender to create a robust organization
designed for long-term success. Under the four work streams
– Leadership Pillars, Female Acceleration, Live Diversity &
Inclusion, and Attract & Grow – various initiatives are rolled out.

•	Social impact projects to collaborate with communities
to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access
to electricity in the country, especially in rural areas for
its development

The Leadership Pillars model was co-created and validated with
the International Institute for Management Development (IMD),
and helps managers to create a culture and environment that
enables diversity of thought to thrive for sustainable growth. The
Female Acceleration program aims at building a strong business
succession pool of potential leaders and experts for key roles.
The interventions are designed to follow the progress of women
in the company, from increasing gender diversity recruitment,
diverse external hires and experienced professionals, pipeline
planning, and policy-level structural integration. Through the 2nd
career program, periodic review of policy and benefits, a suite
of options to enable flexibility, and ensure equal opportunities
without bias, your Company has successfully integrated diversity
into everyday working practices.

Diversity and Education: Your Company is sponsoring 200
girl students hailing from economically backward families from
Tier II & III cities across the country pursuing engineering courses
in BE/ B. Tech for four years. The students receive a yearly
scholarship along with a laptop supported by several trainings
spread over four years on soft skill development, technical and
employable skills, mentoring for career goals, offsite training,
factory visits, internship and employment opportunities to eligible
candidates. Women employees from the Company are actively
involved in mentoring and conducting training for the students.

The ‘Live Diversity & Inclusion’ work stream envisages the
cultural basis for collaboration and inclusiveness by imparting
training programs, creating Employee Resource Groups,
bridging the generational gap, and strengthening efforts in
reasonable accommodation and accessibility for disability. In
addition, ‘Attract and grow talent’ spotlights the Company values
of purpose and social innovation. By covering the entire early
talent landscape spectrum, right from high school to university
graduates, through relevant training, internship, mentoring, as
well as offering experiential opportunities, it allows students to
learn about the business to explore and accelerate their careers.
In a bid to expand its academic initiatives, your Company recently
strengthened collaboration with IIT Roorkee by inaugurating the
C-MAC lab to enable a sustainable energy future for all.
The Company’s performance management system is aligned
with the business goals and strategy, recognizing exceptional
performance and talent, and exposure to global culture through
placements in other countries via the global mobility program.
As your Company looks ahead, it remains steadfast in its
commitment to guiding its employees in charting their learning
agendas in alignment with market requirements, ensuring that
they possess the skills necessary to navigate an ever-evolving
landscape successfully.

Corporate social responsibility
Your Company is committed to sustainable and inclusive
development of the community’s social capital through active
engagement. Through social surveys organized through NGO
partners, the grievances of the community are received.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects are identified and
implemented in the following focus areas:
•	Promote gender equality and empower women in the
engineering workforce
•

Endorse education, employability & healthcare

•

Aid in sustainable development goals

Some of the main initiatives conducted over the year are below:

The organization is also sponsoring, for a period of six years, 500
girl students from economically backward families in Tier II & III
cities pursuing STEM courses in 11th Grade. The students receive
a yearly scholarship, along with one-on-one mentoring, trainings
in soft skill development, career planning and technical skills.
Smart learning and clean drinking water in government
schools: Your Company is supporting the Gujarat government’s
‘Sarva Siksha Abhiyan’ initiative. It has converted two classrooms
in each of the five government schools in the villages of Gujarat
for digital teaching by providing large screen monitors with
interactive CPU and also refurbished the classrooms. The
organization is also providing drinking water and has upgraded
the campus and other facilities at the Government School in
Maneja, Vadodara.

Healthcare
Your Company has contributed to addressing different facets
of healthcare across locations in the country. It has augmented
ICU facilities in several government hospitals with ICU beds
and medical equipment in Karnataka and Gujarat. It has also
contributed to a full-fledged 10-bed pediatric ICU facility in Savli,
Gujarat and Mysuru to support infants in and around surrounding
districts. The organization has provided a hematology lab and
fully-equipped ambulances at the government hospital in
Vadodara. It has funded development and deployment of mobile
deep-freeze patented design vaccine / immunization carriers to
remote villages in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. It continues to
maintain all medical equipment supplied to government hospitals
for three years. Your Company also provides financial support to
children below 14 years in need of critical / emergency surgical
and medical assistance across the country.
Environment and urban afforestation: In recognition of
its responsibility towards the environment, your Company has
undertaken key initiatives during the year. This includes the
maintenance of 10,000 sq ft of urban forest developed from dry
land in Vadodara city. Over 3,000 native saplings were planted,
involving government school children and also developed a
play area and a paved walkway. This has enabled offsetting
about 66 tons of CO2 per year. Your Company is in the process

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

139

of developing another dry area of 10,000 sq ft into an urban
forest. It is also involved in the development and maintenance of
greenery along 2 km stretch of metro median and the National
Highway in Bengaluru as well as design and development of a
traffic circle with greenery, water body and local cultural murals
at Vadodara.
Smart Infrastructure: The organization is supporting
government universities such as NIT Warangal, IIT Roorkee,
IIT Kharagpur, IIT Madras and other top-tier universities by
developing smart and digital laboratories under various areas
of electrical engineering applications to support Masters and
Research Scholars. It is conducting hackathons at Government
Universities to promote sustainable energy for all, felicitating
winners with cash rewards and sponsoring winning projects. Your
Company is sponsoring interactive industry-academia programs
by inviting students to Hitachi Energy India Limited’s factories/
business locations for technical trainings. It has provided e-carts
at several Universities for convenient in-campus commute of
students and faculty members, thereby reducing the use of
personal vehicles and CO2 emissions.

Material developments in human resources/
industrial relations front
Human resources
A journey as intricate, long-running, and requiring focused
commitment as the energy transition, needs the collective
involvement to move towards this objective with the same
dedication, speed, perception, and capability. Hitachi Energy
India Limited has taken a multi-pronged approach to ensure that
its employees are well-equipped to nurture this vision right down
to the last person in the factory and at site.
To be at the forefront of a market that is swiftly embracing ecoefficient energy technologies requires a workforce that is wellskilled to anticipate and usher in the future. Accordingly, your
Company has instituted a lifelong learning culture that ensures
employees can explore a longstanding yet richly diverse and
rewarding career path. They are empowered to not only gain a
broader range of skills in their area of expertize but also branch
out their portfolio to learn and adeptly evolve into newer roles on
the route to a clean energy future. A comprehensive Rewards
and Recognition framework recognizes the pioneering spirit,
distinctive problem-solving, and exceptional contributions of your
Company’s multi-generational workforce. These key efforts have
ensured that Hitachi Energy India Limited continues to retain its
top researchers, technologists, and engineers who are helping
shape the future of energy.
By inculcating a company-wide philosophy of diversity and
inclusivity right from hiring practices, your Company has ensured
that it can welcome and nurture the brightest minds in the
business from across industry and academia.
Hitachi Energy India Limited strongly believes that its versatile
and multi-skilled employees have been instrumental in building an
expansive range of industry-leading customized and innovative
solutions. Their efforts have helped mark your Company’s voice
as one of trust and influence in the business.

140

The organization believes in creating a secure environment
that cares for employees’ well-being. Health and safety is the
foremost priority and throughout the period under review, the
Company has endeavored to ensure a safe working environment
in all premises, undertaking several wellness initiatives. The
Company also paid attention to the governance of various
processes and initiatives across the organization and ensured
industrial relations remained cordial and harmonious across all
manufacturing locations.

People well-being
With an aim to be a world-class leader in health, safety and
environment to protect people, communities, and the planet,
among your Company’s top commitments is to foster positive
health and well-being work environments. By embedding health
and well-being into the core of its operations, the focus is to
create an empowering and rewarding work environment for
all employees.
Hitachi Energy India Limited seeks to improve well-being at the
workplace by referencing and implementing key international
principles from the World Health Organization, as well as relevant
international conventions and standards such as those governed
by the International Labor Organization.
By incorporating the Hitachi Energy global Health Wheel, your
Company has taken a 360-degree approach by covering the
physical, mental and occupational aspects of health and wellbeing at the workplace. This has enabled the organization to
foster a thriving workforce and increase employee engagement,
productivity, and talent retention.
To promote physical well-being, participation-based wellness
programs are regularly organized to motivate behavioral change,
drive engagement, and promote better health practices.
Proactive mental well-being management is well-integrated into
the latest strategy through the award-winning ‘Mind Matters’
flagship program. Occupational health is addressed by ensuring
safe workplaces and working conditions by complying with the
applicable occupational health and industrial hygiene standards.
With health and well-being fully embedded in its management
system, the organization’s Employee Health and Well-being
Policy aims to support and contribute to providing a healthy
and supportive environment for all employees. Health and
well-being standards are measured through a diversified lens
ranging from occupational health, well-being and resilience, to
ergonomics and human factors, industrial hygiene, and health
risks assessment.
Multiple awareness sessions on health and well-being were
organized in different office locations and factories to create
awareness around key topics. Annual medical check-ups
and camps were set up through the year to promote physical
well‑being.

Learning and development
Hitachi Energy India Limited is committed to fostering a culture
of lifelong learning. Its belief in the transformative power of
continuous education drives employees to chart their learning
journeys, aligning with both present requirements and future

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

aspirations. The organization provides a diverse array of learning
avenues, including digital platforms equipped with global and
local programs.
Over 400 leaders benefited from the in-house upskilling programs,
equipping them with the tools to excel in their roles, collaborate
with their teams and drive innovation within the organization.
Your Company has witnessed remarkable engagement on the
digital learning platform Percipio, with over 3947 courses taken
by eager learners seeking to expand their knowledge horizons.
On the knowledge-sharing platforms provided to employees,
your Company saw many enthusiastic employees joined these
platforms to share and learn from each other.
Furthermore, with the launch of Excel Her, a program designed
to nurture and empower the Company’s women leaders, they are
provided with tailored support and development opportunities
to thrive in their careers.
As your Company looks ahead, it remains steadfast in its
commitment to guiding its employees in charting their learning
agendas in alignment with market requirements, ensuring that
they possess the skills necessary to navigate an ever-evolving
landscape successfully.

Diversity and inclusion
The complexities of dynamic environmental challenges that your
Company is helping to solve requires the world’s most creative
and determined people. To build this kind of team with a mindset
to make a difference, it launched Diversity 360 in 2019. This vision
embraces differences in creativity, skills, culture, experience,
ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion, education, background,
and gender to create a robust organization designed for longterm success. Translating the vision to the employees involves
working with purpose and thinking big to make real impact,
achieving more together because collaboration propelled by
diversity leads to great innovation, and energizing careers by
inspiring progress.
By launching a series of programs, interventions, and events,
Diversity 360 has been brought to life. With the focus of
integrating it into the entire employee experience, this peoplecentered approach includes four key workstreams:
•	‘Leadership Pillars’ a unique leadership model cocreated and validated with the International Institute for
Management Development (IMD) that embeds the DEI
strategy into everyday behaviors, policies and leadership
decisions. It holds a strong belief that leaders are the key
to creating a culture and environment that enables diversity
of thought to thrive for sustainable growth. By connecting
employees to four fundamental pillars of Purpose, People,
Potential, and Performance, they play an integral role in
helping them develop and grow in their careers. Since
launch, over 85% of the organization’s people managers
have completed the training to understand this concept,
with around 40% at an advanced level.
•	‘Female Acceleration’ with a 25% gender diversity
ambition across Hitachi Energy’s entities globally by 2025.
The focus is on building a strong business succession
pool of potential leaders and experts for key roles. This

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

is enabled through various development programs, global
employee networks, partnerships, and benefits with a goal
to ensure female colleagues at every level feel empowered,
supported, valued, and respected. Right from increasing
gender diversity intake through recruitment of early career
female hires, diverse external hires and experienced
professionals, pipeline planning to identify female talent
and create talent bench strengths and enablement of talent
through key initiatives and exposure, policy-level structural
integration, women form a critical link to business success.
Through the 2nd career program, periodic review of policy
and benefits, a suite of options to enable flexibility, and
ensuring equal opportunities without bias, your Company
has successfully integrated diversity into everyday
working practices.
•	Through ‘Live Diversity & Inclusion’, your Company lays
down the cultural basis for collaboration and inclusiveness
where unique strengths are embraced, respected, and
used to drive it forward. By imparting training programs
to become aware of unconscious bias and interrupt
associated behaviors, enabling and celebrating authenticity
by respecting all areas of diversity through an inclusive
culture, creating Employee Resource Groups to advance
the DEI agenda, bridging the generational gap through the
generational inclusion focus, and strengthening efforts
in reasonable accommodation and accessibility through
Disability Inclusion enables DEI to be a daily commitment.
•	‘Attract and grow talent’ spotlights the Company values
of purpose and social innovation. By covering the entire
early talent landscape spectrum, right from high school to
university graduates, through relevant training, internship,
mentoring, as well as offering experiential opportunities,
it allows students to learn about the business to explore
and accelerate their careers. For internal talent, the
organization’s culture of lifelong learning with world-class
training and focused development programs provides
immense opportunities for personal growth and global
mobility to help employees reach their full potential. The
vast learning resources portfolio includes tools, systems,
platforms, courses and programs that individuals can
explore and adjust for self-paced learning and as per
their desired career growth trajectory. To emphasize
this, over 10,000 employees engaged in the Percipio skill
development online learning with more than 46,400 hours
spent on 95,700+ completed sessions.

Finance
Your Company’s focus on market trends and keeping track
of high growth segments, as well as operational excellence,
strong manufacturing capability and customer connections were
instrumental in delivering sustained performance in April 2023
- March 2024.
Your Company generated total orders of H 5,536.3 Crores in
FY 2023-24, increased by ~14% YoY over the corresponding
period for FY 2022-23, while excluding HVDC orders.
The revenue for FY 2023-24 stood at H 5,246.8 Crores with a
17% increase during the same period last financial year.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

141

The first two quarters of the year were impacted by supply
limitations such as delays in procurement of semiconductors
and other key electronic components. While continually
monitoring the situation, the company also deployed strategic
initiatives to mitigate the impact of supply chain turbulence to
the extent possible.
Your Company’s net profit stood at H 163.8 Crores against H 93.9
Crores in FY 2022-23. Order backlog was at of H 7,229.5 Crores at
year-end. The Board has also recommended an equity dividend
of 200% amounting to H 4 per share of face value H 2 each.
At H 350.2 Crores or 6.7% Operational EBIDTA was a result of a
favorable revenue mix, operational excellence and digitalization
efforts. Profit before tax stood at H 221.7 Crores, up 69.5% YoY
and profit after tax was at H 163.8 Crores, up 74.4% YoY.
Your Company’s current ratio was at 1.16 and interest coverage
ratio at 5.31, showing strength in its balance sheet and its ability
to maximize capital. Your Company’s debtor turnover ratio was
3.44, indicating its robust collection processes. However, your
Company is also discussing potential repayment mechanisms
to clear historical overdue.
Inventory turnover stood at 3.99. Your Company’s Operating
EBITA was 5.0%, while the net profit margin was at 3.1%.
In FY 2023-24, the interest cost borne by your Company was
H 46.6 Crores. As on March 31, 2023, your Company had a net
debt of H 22.0 Crores. In terms of foreign currency exposure
– for imports and exports – your Company continued to
conservatively hedge at the point of commitment to protect the
contract margins.
Details of significant changes (i.e. change of 25% or more as
compared to the immediately previous financial year) in key
financial ratios, along with detailed explanations thereof:

Key financial ratios
Particulars

Debtors Turnover
Inventory Turnover
Interest Coverage Ratio
Current Ratio
Debt Equity Ratio*
Operating Profit Margin (%)
Net Profit Margin (%)

FY 2023-24
April 1, 2023 to
March 31, 2024

FY 2022-23
April 1, 2022 to
March 31, 2023

3.44
3.99
5.31
1.16
0.11
6.67
3.12

3.04
3.75
4.37
1.16
0.23
5.65
2.09

Disclosure of accounting treatment: Your Company followed
IND-AS and has detailed its accounting policy in Note 2 of the
financial statements.
*Debt Equity Ratio = Short term borrowing / total equity

Funds generated from the Company’s operations and financing
activities are utilized to deliver long-term sustainable growth
and value creation to its stakeholders. Hitachi Energy India
Limited will continue investing in capex expansion, supporting
its new-age manufacturing sites and supply chain, enabling your
Company to deliver superior products to its customers.

142

Strategic Pillars
Hitachi Energy India Limited wants to grow sustainably but also
profitably by expanding business operations. The Company is
committed to delivering faster than market growth. . In doing
so, capital expenditure is increased on various business units;
additionally, there is a focus to launch new products in digital and
AIS and the Company is working on building local capabilities
on e-Mobility and energy storage. Other business units are also
expanding and showing promise, such as PGGA’s new digital
products, which are ready for market launch. Similarly, the PGHV
unit has made quick inroads into the market with its advanced
products and services. Globally, Hitachi Energy has acquired
Global Logic to build advanced digital products, and which can
establish dominance in the digital space.
Additionally, your Company is also focused on sustainable
practices. It prioritizes net-zero and carbon-neutral practices
by making its offices carbon-neutral and running manufacturing
sites on renewables power.

Risk and concerns
The pace of change today has only heightened the risks that
corporates face. The World Economic Forum’s 2024 risk report
frames four trajectories that are in motion which indicate risk
along the way. These include climate change, demographic
bifurcation, technological acceleration, and geostrategic
shifts. The power sector is intrinsically connected to all these
trajectories, making risk management a key factor for business
resilience and growth.
Hitachi Energy India Limited manages risk via strong governance
frameworks and risk management procedures. Furthermore,
your Company is keeping a strict vigil on global issues like
disturbance in the Red Sea and has taken appropriate measures
to minimize the impact.
The risk management charter and policy of Hitachi Energy
India Limited provides a framework for recognizing, prioritizing,
mitigating, and overseeing significant risk events and action
plans. The method was examined, the risks were determined,
and mitigation measures were decided upon during the
financial year.
Key risk areas were identified as supply chain interruptions,
people, market and competition, cyber security, local content
and competences, transformation project, quality, strategy,
technology, finance, operations and systems, legal and
regulatory, and human resources.
There are suitable assurance and monitoring procedures,
such as crisis management training, yearly updating of crisis
management plans, security plan risk, and business continuity
plan, to assure the efficacy of the risk management framework.
At various levels, periodic evaluations of risks and their
possible effects on business development, profitability, talent
engagement, and market position are carried out based on
the organizational structure matrix. Responses to significant
operational risks are frequently carried out using information
from internal and external assessments, internal performance
reviews, and other sources.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Hitachi Energy India Limited’s risk management strategy aims
to reduce negative effects, effectively take advantage of market
possibilities and boost corporate competitiveness. Hitachi
Energy India Limited is well-equipped to handle possible risks
and guarantee long-term success because it prioritizes risk
management and governance.

Internal control systems and their adequacy
Internal Controls (IC) in your Company have been designed to
withstand and further the interest of all stakeholders by providing
an environment which is conducive to conduct its operations.
Your Company’s IC environment is in place to take care of, inter
alia, financial and operational risks.
Your Company maintains a holistic framework of internal control to
that effect with elements like a Country Management Committee,
Group Directives and Instructions, Local Management
Instructions, Entity-Level Controls, Process Level Controls and
Management Testing Programs. The same provides a platform
for adequate control processes commensurate with the size of
the Company.
A strong emphasis on integrity and ethics forms a part of your
Company’s work culture. An independent management testing
team having expertize in the field, performs Internal Financial
Control effectiveness testing.

Outlook for FY 2024-25
India is poised to emerge as the world’s third-largest economy
by 2030. With an impressive 7.8% growth outlook for FY 2024
and a 6.8% forecast for FY 2025, India is top of the table among
emerging markets. Policy reforms and initiatives, robust domestic
demand, and growing capex investment have all contributed to
the strong recovery post-pandemic. Other indicators such as
growth in Private Final Consumption Expenditure (PFCE), GST
collections, and industrial production expansion in the capital
goods and consumer durables sectors signal a positive note for
economic growth.
While urban consumption continues to be the key driver of
consumption growth, rural demand has also shown a strong
pick-up. These trends signal continued momentum in the coming
months. The construction sector continued to receive a fillip from
the focus on the development of physical infrastructure, reflected
in the healthy growth rates of cement and steel production.
While inflationary pressures have balanced out due to tighter
monetary policy aided by lower international commodity prices,
the IMF has projected global growth to continue at 3.2% in
2024 and 2025. A slight acceleration is expected for advanced
economies with growth expected to rise from 1.6% in 2023 to
1.7% in 2024 and 1.8% in 2025. The forecast for global growth
five years from now—at 3.1% —is at its lowest in decades.
Global experts have indicated that high-interest rates, increased
energy prices, and a slowdown in the world’s top two economies
are responsible. Geopolitical risk and the wars in Ukraine and the
Middle East could also contribute to a worsening global financial
outlook, with a mild recession on the cards in some advanced
economies. This could have far-reaching impacts on energy
prices, food costs, international trade, and diplomatic ties.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

However, India’s steady growth trajectory is expected to
continue into FY 2025, aided by the accelerated pace of energy
transition to renewable sources. As per IEA, electricity demand
is likely to average growth of 6% every year through 2026 on
the back of hectic economic activity, roughly equivalent to the
UK’s current consumption. Accounting for over 70% of primary
energy demand, the electricity, industry, and transport sectors
are responsible for 85% of energy-related Greenhouse Gas
(GHG) emissions. Hence, there is an urgent need for a transition
to clean energy for decarbonization of the grid, industry and
transport to tackle close to 90% of emissions.
Energy transition projects are spread across segments, and
their multiplier impact is only possible when brought together
by a flexible, digital, and secure grid. India’s sheer size and its
huge scope for growth means that its energy demand is set
to grow by more than that of any other country in the coming
decades – as per International Energy Agency (IEA), to continue
its energy transition journey, India needs to add a grid the size
of the European Union by 2040. Fundamental market drivers
remain intact despite sporadic macro-economic challenges.
This provides medium to long term opportunities for power
technologies, especially in our identified high growth segments
– renewables, HVDC, data centers, transport, etc.
India’s Net Zero 2070 ambition aims to reduce emission intensity
of GDP and increase the capacity of renewable energy and nonfossil fuel sources in the power generation mix to 50% by 2030.
As per a joint EY-CII report, India’s renewable energy sector
boasts over H 20.01 Lakhs Crores ($ 240 billion) in investment
potential, solidifying its global leadership in innovation and
manufacturing. With substantial growth expected in solar
PV and ACC battery investments, India’s self-reliance in
renewables technology is driven by low-cost financing, skilled
workers, and round-the-clock affordable electricity, bolstered
by export incentives.
The interim Union budget for FY 2024-25 made key allocations
to give a boost to clean energy.
This is visible with the allocation of H 10,000 Crores in 2024‑25
for grid-based solar power scheme, a significant jump from
H 4,757 Crores in 2023-24. The launch of the PM Suryoday
Yojana rooftop solar program in January 2024 will bring 10 million
households under the ambit of the scheme with the provision of
up to 300 units of free electricity every month.
With the Union budget slated to be announced during the last
week of July 2024, your Company is hopeful that the government’s
support towards forwarding clean energy remains unabated.
Last year, the Union government introduced the country’s firstever tender to allocate sites for offshore wind energy projects,
currently limited to land-based wind projects. Around 7 GW is to
be auctioned by FY 2024. In addition, Viability Gap Funding has
been announced for the initial addition of up to 1 GW in offshore
wind energy capacity.
The budget for the National Green Hydrogen Mission has been
enhanced to H 600 Crores for FY 2024-25.
With a wide-ranging product portfolio, your Company is
well-positioned to fulfill the demand arising from greater
investments in capacity enhancement and digitalization by

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

143

utilities, manufacturing, rail, e-mobility, and data centers. A
wide-ranging product portfolio with a good mix of traditional
and digital products and solutions - traction transformers,
dry-type transformers, switchgears, SCADA systems, energy
management systems, substations, power electronics-based
HVDC, Flexible AC Transmission Systems (FACTS), city reliable
power infeed, grid automation, microgrids, Battery Energy
Storage Systems (BESS), electric systems for Green Hydrogen,
Integrated Fleet Charging for EVs and electric buses, AI-ML
based Asset Performance Management, Distributed Energy
Resources Management, augmented by Hitachi’s worldclass digital technologies ensure strong business potential for
your Company.
The rise in generation capacity from varied renewable generation
set-ups also requires enhancement of the transmission network
as per the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), India requires
a substantial investment of H 4.75 Lakh Crores by 2027 for
developing its transmission infrastructure, including lines,
substations, and reactive compensation. Goldman Sachs
estimates that the transmission capex is expected to have the
second largest share of over H 41.69 Lakhs Crores ($ 500 billion)
of the total energy transition capex requirement of H 141.74 Lakhs
Crores ($ 1.7 trillion) over the next 25 years. This presents a
significant opportunity for the Company’s core T&D business.
Currently, half of all HVDC links in India transmit power with
Hitachi Energy India Limited technologies. With one HVDC
project expected every year and two HVDC projects to be
awarded in the next 12 months, your Company is well-prepared
to meet such projects with proven expertize enabled by local
manufacturing capacity.
For the offshore segment, a comprehensive range of products,
solutions, and services help reduce costs, increase safety, and
improve efficiency, including an innovative offshore portfolio
of transformers that can operate in environments with salinity
and hydrocarbon, extreme weather conditions like hurricanes,
typhoons, winds, etc.
With greater focus on power system flexibility to reach India’s
renewable energy targets, your Company’s innovations in
products and systems ably help manage power variability from
renewable sources. Impetus to BESS and smart grids offers us
an advantage as early entrants in this space.
Hitachi Energy India Limited. has been a long-standing trusted
partner to the transport sector in India offering high-tech
products and solutions for electrification of Railways, Metro
projects, High-speed rail and e-mobility. From Energy Traction
Transformers for Railways to power automation for metro rail
systems, and innovative flash and fleet charging solutions GrideMotion™ Flash and GrideMotion™ Fleet, the Company’s
seamless solutions power sustainable transport. With a goal of
100% rail electrification, rolling stock upgrade, and 1,058 km of
metro rail network in 27 cities offering an additional area of play,
your Company sees immense potential to further enable clean
mobility in India.
Data centers are set to double capacity by 2025. Hitachi Energy
India Limited has the capability to power data centers of the future
with reliable power and eco-efficient solutions. Moreover, tighter
industry ESG pledges and greater cloud adoption necessitate

144

rapid digitalization. Your Company’s offerings of sustainable
digital and power quality products & solutions ensure reliability,
increase efficiency, and productivity through system design.
The Company has a complete range of power and distribution
transformers and other power equipment, that supports utilities
and industrials to maximize return on assets investment by
ensuring high reliability, reducing life cycle costs, and ensuring
optimized performance while lowering environmental impact.
From power islanding solution to ensure reliable quality power
for the world’s largest oil refinery in Gujarat to digital transformers
in India’s oldest steel plants, digital substations for round-theclock power to IT parks, your Company is energizing the pace
of industrial transformation.
The Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign has provided several stimulus
packages and incentives for domestic manufacturers to up the
ante and manufacture at global standards. This has not only
given an impetus to indigenous innovation but has also served to
position India strategically in the global manufacturing and supply
chain arena. Such policy-led support will also positively impact
Hitachi Energy India Limited. to enhance our manufacturing
capabilities, innovation strength, and digital-focused offerings
in India across our 19 facilities in eight locations.

Opportunities and threats
As global economies move towards realizing their countryspecific sustainability goals, coal continues to dominate the
energy mix. In the absence of a well-planned transition roadmap,
communities and local economies dependent on fossil fuel
supply chains could be severely impacted by financial insecurity.
It could also have a reverse effect with the road leading back to
traditional fossil fuel sources if renewable energy development
doesn’t effectively anticipate and outpace future demand.
The Just Transition Declaration at the UN Climate Change
Conference in Scotland (COP26), recognized the need to ensure
that no one is left behind in the transition to net zero economies
– particularly those working in sectors, cities and regions reliant
on carbon-intensive industries and production.
Energy has been among the fastest-evolving industries globally
in the last five years. Currently, the IEA estimates that energy
employs 65 million people worldwide and accounts for 2% of
global employment, relatively evenly distributed across fuel
supply, power sector, and end uses. Half of this workforce is
employed in clean energy technologies. The IEA’s report, ‘Net
Zero by 2050: A Roadmap for the Global Energy Sector (NZE
Scenario)’, projects that the energy transition will create 14 million
new jobs related to clean energy technologies and require the
shift of around 5 million workers away from fossil fuel sectors. In
addition to these new roles, 16 million workers will be required
to shift to work in clean energy segments, requiring additional
skills and training.
Shortage of skilled labor due to flux in the international labor
market is leading to delays in projects. It becomes imperative to
have better visibility into energy employment trends and provide
requisite resources and training to upskill labor to transition from
traditional to clean energy technologies.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

According to the Asian Development Bank, attempting clean
energy transition at the scale that India requires faces many
challenges. These include access to affordable financing,
lack of institutions that can deploy financing effectively in new
low-carbon growth areas, and technology risks, apart from
ensuring a just transition. Moreover, ensuring universal access to
affordable clean energy is critical. Policies can be effective only
when the resultant transition is inclusive and does not further
isolate already energy-poor regions and communities. This puts
the focus on developing efficient, reliable and scalable solutions
that are affordable and economically priced.
Another key concern is that increasing digitalization across
industries and sectors, including the power sector, has rendered
critical energy infrastructure vulnerable. With non-traditional
modes of conflict tactics on the rise, a key disruptor of energy
supply and energy security thereby is the heightened risk
of cyberattacks.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Cautionary statement
Certain statements made in the Management Discussion and
Analysis Report relating to the Company’s business are forwardlooking statements. These include all statements, other than
those of performance highlights and historical facts, including
those regarding the market and financial position, business
strategy, and objectives for future operations. Forward-looking
statements shall be identified by words such as anticipates,
expects, intends, may, will, believes, estimates, outlook, and
other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion
of future operational, environmental, social and financial
performance. Forward-looking statements are necessarily
dependent on projections and trends and constitute our current
expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Actual results
could differ from the projected in any forward-looking statements
due to risks and uncertainties and other external factors.

From core technologies like power transformers, and circuit
breakers to eco-efficient solutions that deliver reliability, to
consulting services, digitalization and automation – your
Company straddles IT & OT with equal ease to ensure active
contribution towards on-track net-zero targets.
Your Company sees opportunities for global and inter-regional
links and upgrades of maturing HVDC stations. Additionally,
with digital twins, remote monitoring, eco-efficient products and
maintenance options, managing power infrastructure to ensure
reliability and ease of maintenance is an area of opportunity.
Such a landscape while offering immense potential to your
Company, with its local manufacturing and technological
expertize and innovative capabilities, needs the entire partner
ecosystem to work collaboratively to digitally accelerate a
sustainable energy future for all. Hitachi Energy India Limited.
is closely cooperating and co-creating pioneering tech and
solutions, with our industry and academia partners, suppliers,
customers, and other ecosystem collaborators by leveraging
both digital and energy platforms.

The exchange rate used for all USD conversion to H is 1 USD = H 83.3* (as of March 31, 2024*).
*https://www.exchangerates.org.uk/USD-INR-spot-exchange-rates-history-2024.html
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

145

Annexure - B to Board’s Report
Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration

The information relating to the remuneration of Directors / Key Managerial Personnel as required under Section 197(12) of the
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
1.	Ratio of the remuneration of each Executive Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the
financial year 2023-24, the percentage increase in remuneration of Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer and General Counsel & Company Secretary during the financial year 2023-24 (April 2023 to March 2024).
Sl.
No.

Name of the Director/ Key
Managerial Personnel

1.

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Designation

Ratio of remuneration of
each Director to median
remuneration of employees

Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer

Percentage increase
in remuneration

48:1

7.59%

2.

Mr. Ajay Singh

Chief Financial Officer

-

17.00%

3.

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda

General Counsel & Company Secretary

-

12.00%

	Percentage of increase in remuneration relates to fixed component of salary. Other components of the remuneration are as
disclosed elsewhere in the Board’s Report.
Notes:
a)

Annual Revision in remuneration was with effect from July 1, 2023, for all the Key Managerial Personnel.

b)	Independent Directors of the Company are entitled for sitting fees and commission as per the statutory provisions and
within the limits approved by the shareholders. As a policy, the Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors are neither paid
sitting fee nor paid any commission. The details of remuneration of Non-executive Directors are provided in the Corporate
Governance Report. The ratio of remuneration and percentage increase for Non-Executive Directors Remuneration is
therefore not considered for the above purpose.
2.

Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees for the financial year: 11%.

3.

Number of permanent employees on rolls of the Company as on March 31, 2024: 2,375 employees.

4.	Average percentiles increase already made in the salaries of employees other than managerial personnel in the last financial
year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and to point out if
there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:
	The average increment of all employees and managerial personnel is based on performance targets, inflation, prevailing industry
trends and benchmark. The same is as per Company’s increment guideline.
5.	Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company:
	It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid to Directors, KMPs, and employees is as per the Remuneration Policy of
the Company.
By order of the Board
For Hitachi Energy India Limited

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

146

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Annexure - C to Board’s Report
Report on Corporate Governance

1.	Company’s Philosophy on Code of Governance:
	The Company’s Code of Governance philosophy is to establish and manage sustainable growing business with the highest
standards of honesty, openness, and accountability to maximize stakeholders’ value while adhering to all applicable laws, rules,
and regulations. Your Company believes that effective leadership, robust policies, processes and systems and a rich legacy of
values form the hallmark of the best corporate governance framework.
	The Company fully realizes its shareholders’ entitlement to information on the Company’s performance and considers itself a
trustee of its shareholders. The Company provides thorough information to its shareholders on a variety of subjects impacting
the Company’s business and financial performance. The Company’s basic corporate governance concept is to achieve business
excellence and devote itself to growing long-term shareholder value while keeping all stakeholders’ requirements and interests in
mind. The Company is dedicated to transparency in all of its dealings and values corporate ethics. Good corporate governance
is the basis for decision-making and control processes.

2. Board of Directors:
(a)	As on March 31, 2024, the Board of Directors consists of 6 Directors viz., three Independent and three Non-Independent, out
of which two Independent Directors are women Directors. Out of the three Non-Independent Directors, one is a Managing
Director and CEO, and which is in conformity with the requirements of Regulation 17 of the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations). The Chairman of the
Board is a Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director.

(b)	Except for the Managing Director and Independent Directors, the remaining two Non-Independent, Non-Executive Directors
are liable to retire by rotation. Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN: 08596097) and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka (DIN: 08598862) are
the Nominee Directors of Promoter i.e. Hitachi Energy Ltd. (formerly known as Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd), holding 75%
of the paid-up equity share capital of the Company. In the ensuing Annual General Meeting, Mr. Achim Michael Braun
(DIN: 08596097), Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director, who is liable to retire by rotation being eligible has opted
for re-appointment. There is no relationship between the Directors inter-se during the financial year under review, other
than payment of sitting fees, payment of commission and reimbursement of expenses incurred by them for the purpose
of attending meetings of the Company.

(c)	Composition / Category of Board of Directors as on March 31, 2024:
Name of the Director

Category(1)

Number of
Directorships
in other Indian
companies(2)

Member

Chairman

No. and % of
Equity Shares
held in the
Company (%)

Mr. Nuguri Venu

MD & CEO

2

2

Nil

Nil

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

Chairman, NED

Nil

Nil

Nil

Nil

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

NED

Nil

1

Nil

Nil

Mr. Mukesh Butani

NED (ID)

6

5

3

Nil

Committee membership /
Chairmanship in Public Companies(3)

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

NED (ID)

3

2

0

Nil

Ms. Meena Ganesh(4)

NED (ID)

11

4

1

Nil

		(1) Category: NED - Non-Executive Director, MD - Managing Director, CEO - Chief Executive Officer, NED (ID) - Non-Executive,
Independent Director.
		(2) Includes directorships in Private Limited Companies, Section 8 (Non-Profit) Companies and Company Limited by Guarantee (excluding
Hitachi Energy India Limited).
		(3) Includes only the Audit Committee and the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of Public Limited Companies (including Hitachi
Energy India Limited). None of the Directors on the Board is a Member of more than 10 Committees and Chairperson of more than 5
Committees across all listed companies in which they are Directors.
		(4) Pursuant to the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company, the
Shareholders at the 4th Annual General Meeting held on August 17, 2023 approved the appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh (DIN:
00528252) as an Independent Director for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years effective from May 24, 2023 to May 23, 2028.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

147

		All Directors on the Board comply with the requirements stated in Regulation 26(1) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. They
are not members of more than 10 Committees or Chairpersons of more than 5 Committees across all public companies
in which they hold Director positions. The necessary disclosures regarding committee positions have been made by all
the Directors.
		None of the Directors holds office in more than 10 public companies as prescribed under Section 165(1) of the Act.
Furthermore, in compliance with Regulation 17A of the Listing Regulations, none of the Non-Executive Directors serve as
Independent Directors in more than 7 listed companies. It is important to note that Mr. Nuguri Venu, Managing Director
and CEO (DIN: 07032076) does not serve as an Independent Director in any listed company.
		Directors of the Company do not hold any shares in the Company. The Company has not issued any convertible instruments,
during the year under review.

(d)	Number of Board Meetings held in the financial year 2023-24 (April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024) and the dates on which held.
		Four (4) Board meetings were held during the financial year 2023-24 viz., (1) May 23, 2023 (which was adjourned and
concluded on May 24, 2023); (2) July 25, 2023; (3) November 6, 2023 and (4) January 23, 2024. The necessary quorum
was present for all the meetings.

(e)	Attendance of Directors at the Board Meetings and Annual General Meeting (AGM) held during the
financial year 2023-24:
Attendance

Sl.
No.

Name of the Director

1.

Board Meetings held
during the year

Board Meetings
attended

Whether present at AGM
held on August 17, 2023(1)

Mr. Nuguri Venu

4

4

Yes

2.

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

4

4

Yes

3.

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

4

4

Yes

4.

Mr. Mukesh Butani

4

4

Yes

5.

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

4

4

Yes

6.

Ms. Meena Ganesh(2)

3

3

Yes

7.

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva(2)

1

1

NA

		(1) The AGM was held through video conferencing (“VC”) and Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”).
		(2) Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) resigned from the position of Independent Director of the Company effective from May 24,
2023. Her resignation letter included a detailed statement of reason, informing that due to professional commitments and other
engagement she would not be able to continue as a director of the Company. She further confirmed in her resignation letter that there
are no other material reasons other than those specified in the resignation letter. Pursuant to the recommendation of Nomination and
Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company, the Shareholders at the 4th Annual General Meeting held on
August 17, 2023 approved the appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh (DIN: 00528252) as an Independent Director for a term of 5 (five)
consecutive years effective from May 24, 2023 to May 23, 2028.

(f)

Directorship in Other Listed Entities as on March 31, 2024 and Category of Directorship:
Sl.
No.

148

Name of the Director

Name of the other listed entities

Category of directorship

1

Mr. Nuguri Venu

NIL

NIL

2

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

NIL

NIL

3

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

NIL

NIL

4

Mr. Mukesh Butani

Latent View Analytics Limited

Independent

Dabur India Limited

Independent

United Spirits Limited

Independent

5

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

IndusInd Bank Limited

Independent

Matrimony.com Limited

Independent

6

Ms. Meena Ganesh

Pfizer Limited

Independent

Axis Bank Limited

Independent

Corporate Overview

Statutory Reports

Integrated Report

Financial Statements

(g) Board’s Core Skills/ Expertise/ Competencies:
		For effective functioning of the Board, the Company’s Board needs to have skills/expertise/competencies in the areas of
Business, Finance & Accounting and Governance/Legal. The Company’s Board comprises of people from diverse fields
and across globe.
		The Company’s Directors are qualified and possess the appropriate knowledge, skills, experience, expertise, diversity and
independence, covering Business, Finance & Accounting and Governance/ Legal. In the table given below, various skills/
expertise/ competencies of the Board of Directors are given:
Areas of Skills / Expertise / Competencies

Sl.
No.

Name of the Director

1.

Business

Finance &
Accounting

Governance /
Legal

Leadership

Mr. Nuguri Venu









2.

Mr. Achim Michael Braun







3.

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka









4.

Mr. Mukesh Butani









5.

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar







6.

Ms. Meena Ganesh







(h)	Succession Planning for the Board and Senior Management:
		The Company has a robust system in place to ensure smooth transitions in leadership, including for our Directors, Executive
Director, Senior Management Team, and other critical talents and key roles.
		This is an annual global process where employees across all levels are rated on their Potential Index in the 9 Box grid,
retention risk loss impact and successors for Key positions are identified. Additionally, the Company regularly reviews talents
for senior management and other executive officers. This process provides a comprehensive overview of our leadership
level talent inventory and capabilities, ensuring that we meet our critical talent needs in alignment with our business drivers.

(i)

Compliance Framework:

		The Company has a robust and effective framework for monitoring compliances with applicable laws within the organization
and providing updates to senior management and the Board periodically. The Board of Directors periodically review the
status of the compliances with the applicable laws.

(j)
		

Independent Directors:
•	The Independent Directors are from diverse fields of expertise and have long-standing experience and expert
knowledge in their respective fields are very relevant as well as of considerable value for the Company’s business.

			As a part of the familiarization program as required under Listing Regulations, the Directors have been appraised
during the Board/Committee Meetings about the amendments to the various enactments viz., Companies Act, 2013
(the Act) and Listing Regulations. Further, as a part of Board and Committee meetings members of the Board are
also appraised on various developments in business both from an internal and external perspective.
		

•	During the period under review, the Company has conducted the familiarization program and details are available in
the Company’s website at: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/board-of-directors

		

•	The terms and conditions of appointment of the Independent Directors are disclosed in the Company’s website at:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/board-of-directors

		

•	Independent Directors of the Company have provided a declaration as required under the Companies Act, 2013 and
Listing Regulations. The Board has noted the said declarations and opinion that all Independent Directors fulfil the
conditions of independence and are independent of the management of the Company.

			All Independent Directors fulfil the requirements stipulated in Regulation 25(1) of the Listing Regulations and the
Companies Act, 2013.
		

•	The Key Managerial Personnel of the Company provide regular updates periodically to all the Directors by making
presentation(s) on key business developments, business & financial performance, new strategic initiatives, financial
outlook, financial reports, risk, compliance, market outlook/evolving trends, sustainability initiatives, CSR, Human
Resources, safety, key regulatory updates. Further, the Company has also facilitated factory visits in Zurich, Switzerland
for the Directors, providing them with firsthand experience and brief overview of the Hitachi Energy group’s operations
at the respective locations including in person meetings with the Executive Team members of Hitachi Energy group.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

149

		

•	During the financial year under review, one separate meeting of the Independent Directors was held on July 25, 2023
without the presence of Non-Executive Directors/ Managing Director/ Management, to discuss the matter as required/
agreed amongst them in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and Listing Regulations.

(k) The Board periodically reviews the compliance reports submitted by the Management in respect of all laws applicable to
the Company.

(l)	Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the
Listing Regulations is enclosed to this Report.

3. Audit Committee:
(i)

Terms of Reference:

	The Audit Committee acts on the terms of reference given by the Board pursuant to Section 177 of the Act and Regulation 18
of the Listing Regulations.
The terms of reference are briefly described below:
•	Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the
financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible.
•	Recommending the Board, appointment, re-appointment, replacement or removal (in the event of necessity) of Statutory
Auditors, Cost Auditors, Secretarial Auditors and/or any other auditors including fixation of remuneration.
•	Approval of payment to Statutory Auditors for any other services rendered by the Statutory Auditors.
•	Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval, with
particular reference to:		

(a)	Matters required to be included in the Director’s Responsibility Statement to be included in the Board’s reporting in
terms of sub-section (5) of Section 134 of the Act.

		

(b)	Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same.

		

(c)	Major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management.

		

(d)	Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings.

		

(e)	Compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements.

		

(f)	Disclosure of any related party transactions; and

		

(g)

•

Qualifications in the draft audit report.

Reviewing, with the management:-

		

(a)	The quarterly financial statements before submission to the Board for approval.

		

(b)	Performance of Auditors, Internal Auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems.

•	Review and monitor the auditor’s independence and performance and effectiveness of the audit process.
•	Review the adequacy of the Internal Audit function including the structure of the internal audit department, staffing and
seniority of the head of the department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit.
•	Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the Company with the related parties.
•	Approval on appointment of Chief Financial Officer including the Whole-time Director - Finance or any other person heading
the finance function or discharging that function after assessing the qualification, experience and background etc., of
such incumbent.
•	Reviewing the proposal for discontinuation / closure of any of the business operations of the Company.
•	Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments.
•	Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary.
•	Monitoring the end use of funds raised through public offers and related matters.
•	Review proposals for mergers, demergers, acquisitions, carve-outs, sale, and transfer of business and its valuation report
and fairness opinion, if any, thereof.
•	Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems.
•	Discussing with internal auditors any significant findings and follow up thereon.
•	Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where there is suspected fraud or
irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the matter to the Board.
•	Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of the audit as well as post
audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern.

150

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

•	To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in case
of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors.
•	Review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism.
•	Carry out such other functions as may be delegated by the Board from time to time.
•	Review various investment proposals before the same is submitted to the Board of Directors and also review the guidelines
for investing surplus funds of the Company.
•	To appoint valuers for the valuation of the undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary including stocks,
shares, securities, goodwill or any other assets or net worth of a Company or liability of the Company under the provisions
of the Act.
	In addition to the above, the following items are reviewed by the Audit Committee:
•	Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.
•	Management letters/letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors.
•	Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses and
•	Appointment, removal, and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor.
•

Statement of Deviations:

		

a)	Quarterly statement of deviation(s), including the report of monitoring agency, if applicable, submitted to stock
exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 32(1).

		

b)	Annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document/ prospectus/ notice in
terms of Regulation 32(7).

	The Audit Committee is vested with the necessary powers to achieve its objectives.
	The Committee has discharged such other role/function as envisaged under Regulation 18(3) read with Part C of Schedule II
of the Listing Regulations and the provisions of Section 177 of the Act.
	The Chairman of the Audit Committee was present at the last AGM (4th AGM held on August 17, 2023).

(ii)	
Composition, Name of Members & Chairperson, Meetings held during the Financial Year and
Attendance at Meetings:
	The Audit Committee presently consists of three Independent Directors and one Executive Director (Managing Director and
CEO). The Committee has held 4 meetings during the financial year 2023-24 (April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024) on May 24, 2023,
July 25, 2023, November 6, 2023 and January 23, 2024.
	The composition of the Audit Committee as on March 31, 2024 and the attendance of members at the meetings held during
the financial year 2023-24 were as follows:
Members of the Committee

No. of meetings

Designation

Held

Attended

Mr. Mukesh Butani

Chairman, Independent Director

4

4

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Independent Director

4

4

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva(1)

Independent Director

1

1

Ms. Meena Ganesh(1)

Independent Director

3

3

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and CEO

4

4

(1) 
Following the appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh as an Independent Director, effective May 24, 2023, and the resignation of Ms. Nishi

Vasudeva, also effective May 24, 2023, the Board of Directors, during their meeting held on May 23, 2023 (which adjourned and concluded
on May 24, 2023), reconstituted the Audit Committee, effective May 24, 2023.

	Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to the Audit Committee.
	The gap between the two Audit Committee Meetings did not exceed 120 days. The necessary quorum was present at the
above Meetings.

4. Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC):
(i)

Terms of Reference:

	The terms of reference and role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee are as per the provisions of Section 178 of the
Act and Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations which includes formulating the criteria to:
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

151

•	Determine qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and recommend to the Board a policy, relating
to the remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel and other employees;
•	For every appointment of an independent director, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall evaluate the balance
of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and on the basis of such evaluation, prepare a description of the role and
capabilities required of an independent director. The person recommended to the Board for appointment as an independent
director shall have the capabilities identified in such description. For the purpose of identifying suitable candidates, the
Committee may:
		

(a)

use the services of an external agency, if required;

		

(b)

consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, having due regard to diversity; and

		

(c)

consider the time commitments of the candidates.

•

Evaluation of Independent Directors and the Board;

•

Devising a policy on Board diversity;

•	Identifying persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance
with the criteria laid down and recommend to the Board their appointment and removal.
•	Recommending to the Board on remuneration, Performance Bonus etc., payable to the Executive Director(s) / Managing
Director, Commission payable to Independent Directors.
•	Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management.
	The policy is framed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board. The terms and conditions
of appointment are disclosed in the website of the Company at: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/boardof-directors
	Consequent to change adopted for the definition of Senior Management Personnel, the Policy has been amended in the NRC
meeting held on November 6, 2023 and approved by the Board of Directors at their meeting held on November 6, 2023.

(ii)	Composition, Name of Members & Chairperson, Meetings held during the Financial Year and
Attendance at Meetings:
	The Nomination and Remuneration Committee presently consists of three Non-Executive Directors, two being independent.
The Chairman is a Non-Executive and Independent Director.
	During the financial year under review, 4 meetings were held on May 23, 2023, May 24, 2023, July 25, 2023 and November
6, 2023.
	The composition of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee as on March 31, 2024 and the attendance of members at
the meetings held during the financial year 2023-24 were as follows:
Members of the Committee

Designation

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar
Ms. Nishi Vasudeva(1)
Mr. Mukesh Butani(1)
Mr. Achim Michael Braun

Chairperson, Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director

No. of meetings
Held

Attended

4
1
3
4

4
1
3
4

(1) 
Following the resignation of Ms. Nishi Vasudeva, effective May 24, 2023, the Board of Directors, at their meeting held on May 23, 2023

(which adjourned and concluded on May 24, 2023), reconstituted the Nomination and Remuneration Committee by inducting Mr. Mukesh
Butani as Member of the Committee, effective from May 24, 2023.

(iii) Remuneration Policy / Criteria for Payments to Directors / Senior Management Employees:
	The Company has a credible and transparent policy in determining and accounting for the remuneration of the Executive / NonExecutive Independent Directors. Independent Directors’ remuneration is governed by the external competitive environment,
track record of the individuals, effective participation in the meetings, comparable industry standards and performance of the
Company. The remuneration determined for the Executive / Independent Directors is subject to the recommendation of the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approval of the Board of Directors.
The Nomination and Remuneration Policy covers the following aspects:
•	Lays down the criteria and terms and conditions with regard to identifying persons who are qualified to become Directors
(Executive and Non-Executive) and persons who may be appointed in Senior Management and Key Managerial positions
and to determine their remuneration.
•	Formulation of criteria for evaluation of the performance of the Board of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior
Management Personnel as required under the law.

152

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

	The Board and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee also reviewed the performance of the Board on the basis of
the criteria such as the contribution of the individual director to the Board and Committee meetings like preparedness on the
issues to be discussed, meaningful and constructive contribution and inputs in meetings, etc. In addition, the Chairman was
also evaluated on the key aspects of his role.
	The Board of Directors based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee has adopted the
performance review criteria. After the conclusion of the period under review, the revision was carried out by the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee in the performance evaluation criteria. Subsequently, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
and the Board of Directors have reviewed the performance of the Directors and the Board as a whole for the financial year
under review.
	The Non-Executive Independent Directors were compensated by way of commission for the financial year 2023-24, the payout
of which was made during the financial year 2024-25 and the criteria being their attendance in the Board / Committee Meetings,
apart from sitting fees and reimbursement of other expenses as approved by the Shareholders at the 3rd Annual General Meeting
held on July 22, 2022.
As per policy, the Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors are neither paid a sitting fee nor paid any commission.
The Independent Directors are entitled to sitting fees for attending the Board/ Committee Meetings.
	Sitting fees for Board and Audit Committee Meetings is C60,000/-per Director per meeting and for other Committees, the sitting
fee is C 30,000/- per Director per meeting.
	The remuneration payable to the Managing Director and CEO and Senior Management personnel including KMP are structured
as fixed and variable components. The fixed remuneration comprises salaries, perquisites and retirement benefits and the
variable component comprises an annual performance bonus which is linked to the achievement of the scorecard fixed at the
beginning of the year and Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which is subject to achievement of performance measures as attached
to the Grant Letter issued from time to time in line with Hitachi Energy group policy.

5. Details of Remuneration Paid to all the Directors during the Financial Year 2023-24:
A. Salary, Performance Bonus and Commission to Directors:
		The Remuneration paid to all the Directors of the Company containing salary, performance bonus and commission to
Directors is as tabled below:
(Amount in K Lakhs)
Name of the Director

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Sitting fees

Salary &
Perquisites

Commission

Stock Option

Pension

-

787.28*

-

-

-

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

-

-

-

-

-

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

-

-

-

-

-

Mr. Mukesh Butani

7.80

-

39.00**

-

-

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

7.80

-

37.00**

-

-

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

2.40

-

40.00**

-

-

Ms. Meena Ganesh

5.70

-

-

-

-

		* 
Remuneration of C 787.28 Lakhs was for the financial year 2023-24 (April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024) which includes a performance
bonus of C 229.68 Lakhs pertaining to the financial year April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023 which was paid during financial year 202324. Further, remuneration includes Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) payout of C 134.29 Lakhs pertaining to KPIs measured over three
financial years, from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2023 which was paid during financial year 2023-24.
		

** Commission for the financial year 2022-23 was paid during the financial year 2023-24.

Commission to Independent Directors for the Financial Year 2023-24 (April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024):
1.	For Board Meetings: a fixed amount of C 25 lakhs per Independent Director based on 100% participation by way of
attendance in the meetings.
2.	For Committee Meetings: a fixed amount of C 3 lakhs per Independent Director based on 100% participation by way of
attendance in the meetings.
3.	For the Chairman of the Audit Committee: a fixed amount of C 8 lakhs for 100% participation by way of attendance in
the meetings.
4.	The above commission payable to Independent Directors of the Company, however, shall not exceed the aggregate 1%
per annum of the net profits of the Company computed in the manner laid down in the Companies Act, 2013.
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

153

5.

		

Commission payable for the financial year 2023-24 will be paid in the financial year 2024-25 as follows:
SI.
No.

Name of the Directors

Amt in K*

1

Mr. Mukesh Butani

40,50,000

2

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

37,00,000

3

Ms. Meena Ganesh

26,25,000

4

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

12,25,000

* The Commission will proportionately be paid to all the Independent Directors considering the reconstitution of certain Committees and
consequent to resignation of Ms. Nishi Vasudeva from the position of Independent Director and appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh as
Independent Director on the Board effective from May 24, 2023.

B. Fixed Component / Performance Linked Incentive / Criteria:
		Performance-related Bonus including Long Term Incentive Plan is payable to the Managing Director only as per the terms
of the Contract entered into between the Company and the Managing Director.

C. Service Contract / Notice Period / Severance Fees:
		

(a)	The Contract of Service entered into by the Company with Mr. Nuguri Venu, Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer provides that the Company and the Managing Director shall be entitled to terminate the agreement by giving
six months’ notice in writing on either side.

		

(b)

No severance fee is payable by the Company to the Managing Director on termination of the agreement.

D. Stock Option:
		The Company does not have a stock option scheme therefore the same is not applicable. No Director holds any Equity
shares of the Company.
		

E.

None of the Non-Executive Directors have any pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company.

Performance Evaluation of Directors:

		The performance evaluation of Directors including that of Independent Directors as required under the Companies Act,
2013 and SEBI Listing Regulations for the financial year 2023-24 was undertaken during the financial year 2024-25.

6. Senior Management:
	The Board of Directors of the Company, based on the recommendations of NRC, has identified category of Senior Management
Personnel(s), pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 16(1)(d) of the Listing Regulations. Details of Senior Management
Personnel(s) as on March 31, 2024, are as follows:
Name of Senior Management

Designation

N Venu

Managing Director & CEO

Ajay Singh

Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna Ammatanda

General Counsel and Company Secretary

Akilur Rahman

Chief Technology Officer

Karthik Krishnamurthi

Head of Sales and Marketing

Ajith Kesavan

Head of Grid Automation

Atul Pandit

Senior Vice President, Transformers

Neha Ahluwalia

Head of Human Resources

Manashwi Banerjee

Head of Communications

Ramkumar D

Head of Grid Power Quality Solution

Rakesh Dwivedi

Head of High Voltage Products

Saji S

Head of High Voltage Direct Current

During the year under review following changes took place in the Senior Management:

154

i.

Mr. Raja Radhakrishnan resigned from the position of Head of Human Resources effective from April 20, 2023.

ii.

R Gnanaprakash was appointed as Head of Human Resources on ad interim basis effective April 20, 2023.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

iii.	Ms. Neha Ahluwalia was appointed as Head of Human Resources of the Company effective October 18, 2023. She took
over this role from R Gnanaprakash, who was handling this role on ad interim basis.
iv.

Mr. Ajith Kesavan was appointed as Head of Grid Automation business unit of the Company effective October 4, 2023.

7. Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee:
	The Stakeholders Relationship Committee has been authorized to approve the transfer/ transmission/ transposition/ demat/
remat of shares/ deletion of name and issue of duplicate share certificates and taking note of Members’ grievances.
Following are the terms of reference of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee:
1.	Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the listed entity including complaints related to the transfer/ transmission
of shares, non-receipt of the annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/ duplicate certificates, general
meetings, etc.
2.

Review of measures taken for the effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.

3.	Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the listed entity in respect of various services being rendered
by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
4.	Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends
and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/ annual reports/ statutory notices by the shareholders of the Company.
	The Stakeholders Relationship Committee shall discharge such other role/function as prescribed by the Board of Directors and/
or envisaged under Regulation 20 read with Part D of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations and the provisions of Section 178
of the Act.
	In order to expedite the process, the Board of Directors has also delegated the authority to any two of the Managing Director
and CEO, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary to approve the transfer/ transmission/ transposition of shares/ remat/
demat / deletion of name, issue of duplicate shares requests as and when required from time to time.
	4 meetings of the Committee were held during this financial year viz., on May 23, 2023, July 25, 2023, November 6, 2023 and
January 23, 2024.
	The composition of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee as of March 31, 2024 and the attendance of members at the
meetings held during the financial year 2023-24 are as follows:
Members of the Committee

Designation

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva(1)
Ms. Meena Ganesh(1)

No. of meetings
Held

Attended

Chairperson, Independent Director

1

1

Chairperson, Independent Director

3

3

Mr. Mukesh Butani

Independent Director

4

4

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and CEO

4

4

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director

4

4

(1) 
Following the appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh as an Independent Director, effective May 24, 2023, and the resignation of Ms. Nishi

Vasudeva, also effective May 24, 2023, the Board of Directors, during their meeting held on May 23, 2023 (which adjourned and concluded
on May 24, 2023), reconstituted the Audit Committee, effective May 24, 2023.

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to the Committee.
	There were no investor queries/ investor grievances pending during the period under review. Continuous efforts are made to
ensure that grievances are more expeditiously redressed to the complete satisfaction of the investors.
The details of investors’ complaints received and resolved during the financial year 2023-24 are as under:
No. of investors’ complaints received during
FY 2023-24

No. of investors’ complaints resolved during
FY 2023-24

No. of Investors’ complaints pending at the
end of FY 2023-24

13

13

0

8. Risk Management Committee:
	The Company has in place a mechanism to inform Board Members about the risk assessment and minimization procedures
and review to ensure that executive management controls risk by means of a properly defined framework. The Company has
formulated a Policy on Risk Management and constituted a Risk Management Committee.
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

155

	The terms of reference and Role of the Risk Management Committee are as per the provisions of Regulation 21 of the Listing
Regulations which includes formulating the criteria to:
1.

To formulate a detailed risk management policy which shall include:-

		

a)	A framework for identification of internal and external risks specifically faced by the listed entity, in particular including
financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability (particularly, ESG - related risks), information, cyber security risks, or any
other risk as may be determined by the Committee.

		

b)

Measures for risk mitigation including systems and processes for internal control of identified risks.

		

c)

Business continuity plan.

2.	To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks associated
with the business of the Company.
3.	To monitor and oversee the implementation of the risk management policy, including evaluating the adequacy of risk
management systems.
4.	To periodically review the risk management policy, at least once in two years, including by considering the changing industry
dynamics and evolving complexity.
5.	To keep the board of directors informed about the nature and content of its discussions, recommendations and actions
to be taken.
6.	The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to review by the Risk
Management Committee.
Further, the list of tentative risks was also revisited and adopted in consonance with the industry and market trends.
Three meetings were held during the financial year viz., July 25, 2023, November 6, 2023 and January 23, 2024.
	The Committee is chaired by Mr. Mukesh Butani, Independent Director. Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel, Company
Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to the Risk Management Committee.
	The composition of the Risk Management Committee as on March 31, 2024 and the attendance of members at the meetings
held during the financial year 2023-24 are as follows:
Members of the Committee

Designation

No. of meetings
Held

Attended

Mr. Mukesh Butani

Chairman, Independent Director

3

3

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva(1)

Independent Director

0

0

Ms. Meena Ganesh(1)

Independent Director

3

3

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and CEO

3

3

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director

3

3

Mr. Ajay Singh

Chief Financial Officer

3

3

(1) 
Following the appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh as an Independent Director, effective May 24, 2023, and the resignation of Ms. Nishi

Vasudeva, also effective May 24, 2023, the Board of Directors, during their meeting held on May 23, 2023 (which adjourned and concluded
on May 24, 2023), reconstituted the Audit Committee, effective May 24, 2023.

9. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee:
	Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee of the Board has
been constituted.
	The terms of reference and Role of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee are as per the provisions of Section 135 of
the Companies Act, 2013.
	The CSR Committee shall be responsible for formulating and recommending to the Board the CSR Policy and an Annual Action
Plan, which shall include the following:
•	list of CSR projects or programs that are approved to be undertaken in areas or subjects as specified in Schedule VII of
the Act;

156

•

the manner of execution of such projects or programs.

•

the modalities of utilization of funds and implementation schedules for the projects or programs.

•

monitoring and reporting mechanism for the projects or programs; and,

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

•

details of need and impact assessment, if any, for the projects undertaken by the Company.

•

to monitor the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the Company from time to time.

Financial Statements

	During the financial year under review, 4 meetings were held viz., May 23, 2023, July 25, 2023, November 6, 2023 and
January 23, 2024.
	The Committee is chaired by Ms. Akila Krishnakumar, Independent Director. The composition of the Committee as of March 31,
2024 and the attendance of members at the meetings held during the financial year 2023-24 are as follows:
No. of meetings

Members of the Committee

Designation

Held

Attended

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Chairperson, Independent Director

4

4

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and CEO

4

4

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director

4

4

The Company has formulated a Policy for its CSR and also identified the following key areas for undertaking CSR activities:
•

Promote gender equality and empowering of women in the engineering workforce

		To promote gender equality by ensuring initiatives to empower / advancement of women and in the engineering work force,
thereby increasing diversity and inclusion.
•

Endorse education, employability & health care

		To create necessary infrastructure and resources to enable the promotion of primary education among children and impart
vocational skills training to the youth, promoting health care including preventive health care.
•

Social impact projects

		To collaborate with communities to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access to electricity in the country,
especially in rural areas for its development.
•

Support national disaster management and other government initiatives

		To actively support national disaster management including relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities and support
in other initiatives for promoting, including preventive measures for health care systems, hygiene and sanitation.
•

Aid in sustainable development goals

		To promote an ecosystem for sustainable development goals by encouraging usage of indigenous, innovative and
sustainable solutions by aiding, development, promoting, facilitating and undertaking testing of new frontiers of science,
technology, engineering, and environment in partnership with like-minded institutions, incubators and sponsors.
	The Company’s CSR policy may be viewed on the Company’s website at: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investorrelations/corporate-governance#policies
Further details on CSR expenditure and projects are provided in the Annexure to Board’s Report.

10. Environment, Social and Governance Committee:
	Sustainability is in the DNA of Hitachi Energy’s business strategy, shaping the approach the Company takes towards environment,
society, and governance. The Company is dedicated towards the reduction of its carbon footprint and for its social and employee’s
welfare and governance causes. The Company has constituted Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Committee in the
Board meeting held on October 22, 2021. The work under ESG continued during the financial year under review. The details of
the performance and reporting under ESG is included under Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, forming part of
this Report.

Charter and Objectives of ESG Committee:
Drivers of ESG:
•	Hitachi Energy’s Sustainability 2030 strategy based on UN SDGs focused on four key areas: Planet, People, Peace,
and Partnerships
•

Investor Expectations

•

Evolving Compliance and Stock Exchange Listing Requirements

•

Contribution to an Integrated Strategic Approach - Increased revenues and innovation
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

157

•

Cost savings and efficiencies

•

Improved access to capital

•

Improvements in staff morale

•

Improved reputation and stakeholder relations

•

Doing “the right thing”

Sustainability vs ESG: ESG Factors for Better Business Performance:
Hitachi Energy has placed sustainability at the heart of its purpose to advance a sustainable energy future for all.
Company ESG Purpose and Charter Purpose:
	ESG Committee has been constituted with the objective to assist the Board of Directors of the Company in fulfilling its oversight
responsibilities in relation to Hitachi Energy’s objectives, policies, and practices pertaining to:
•

Environment: Interaction with the physical environment

•

Social: Impact on society and communities

•

Governance: How the Company is governed

with Sustainability 2030 strategy based on four pillars of:
•

Planet - Towards carbon neutral

•

People - Diversity plus collaboration equals great innovation

•

Peace - Peaceful inclusive and sustainable societies

•

Partnerships - Foster multi stakeholder partnerships
− The Committee shall meet at least once during the financial year. Meetings of the ESG Committee shall be held either
in person or by virtual audio/video conference mode.
− The Committee shall invite such other employees or engage third parties to attend the meetings and / or to monitor
the implementation of ESG objectives.
− The Committee shall make available to the Board the minutes of its meetings.

Roles & Responsibilities of ESG Committee:
ESG Committee shall undertake the following:
(1)

Monitor and implement ESG targets of the Company and review its adequacy

(2)	To keep the Board of Directors informed about the nature and content of its discussions, recommendations, and actions
to be taken.
(3)	To facilitate reporting of ESG-related matters in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report as may be
statutorily required.
(4)	To perform such functions or duties as may be prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI Listing Regulations, and
any other applicable laws from time to time and discharge such other functions as may be specifically delegated to the
Committee by the Board from time to time.
(5)

The ESG Committee of Directors shall be vested with the following powers:

		

(a)	The Committee shall have the authority to scrutinize programs and initiatives to ensure transparency and oversee the
implementation of programs/initiatives across the Company.

		

(b)

(6)

Obtain external legal or other independent professional advice, whenever necessary.

The ESG Committee shall:

		

(a)	
oversee the effectiveness of sustainability programs and provide inputs related to matters of ESG and
corporate responsibility.

		

(b)

		

(c)	advise on the Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report and any other issue-specific reports (if any) prior to
reporting to the Board.

158

review and provide inputs on sustainability goals.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

		

(d)

consider and recommend to the Board positioning on relevant emerging sustainability issues.

		

(e)

review and approve the Sustainability roadmap.

		

(f)

provide direction and oversight to the internal sustainability function.

	The Committee was chaired by Ms. Nishi Vasudeva – Independent Director. Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel,
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to the Committee. During the financial year under review, one
meeting was held on May 23, 2023.
	The composition of the ESG Committee as of March 31, 2024, and the attendance of members at the meeting held during the
financial year 2023-24 are as follows:
No. of meetings

Members of the Committee

Designation

Held

Attended

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva(1)

Chairperson, Independent Director

1

1

Ms. Meena Ganesh(1)

Chairperson, Independent Director

0

0

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Independent Director

1

1

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

Non-Executive Non-Independent Director

1

1

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and CEO

1

1

(1) 
Following the appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh as an Independent Director, effective May 24, 2023, and the resignation of Ms. Nishi

Vasudeva, also effective May 24, 2023, the Board of Directors, during their meeting held on May 23, 2023 (which adjourned and concluded
on May 24, 2023), reconstituted the Audit Committee, effective May 24, 2023.

11. Details of Other Committee Meetings and Membership:
•

Listing Committee: As the Listing process was completed in March 2020, no more meetings were required to be convened.

•	
Committee of Independent Directors for Open offer: As the Open offer process was completed in September 2020,
no more meetings were required to be convened.
•	
Committee of Independent Directors for annual evaluation: During the financial year, one meeting was held on July
25, 2023.
	Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel & Company Secretary acted as the Secretary to the Committee of Independent
Directors for annual evaluation.
	The composition of the Committee of Independent Directors as of March 31, 2024, and the attendance of members at the
meeting held during the financial year 2023-24 are as follows:
No. of meetings

Members of the Committee

Designation

Held

Attended

Mr. Mukesh Butani

Chairman, Independent Director

1

1

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Independent Director

1

1

Ms. Meena Ganesh

Independent Director

1

1

12. Subsidiary Company:
	The Company did not have any subsidiaries during the period under review. Accordingly, the requirements of proving details of
material subsidiaries of the listed entity as on March 31, 2024, including the date and place of incorporation, name and date of
appointment of the statutory auditors of such subsidiary(ies) does not arise.

Policy for Material Subsidiary:
The policy on material subsidiaries is not applicable as the Company does not have any Subsidiaries as of reporting date.

13.	Managing Director (MD) & Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer
(CFO) Certification:
	As required under Regulation 17 read with Part B of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations, the MD and CFO certification on the
Financial Statements, the Cash Flow Statement, and the Internal Control Systems for financial reporting has been obtained from
Mr. Nuguri Venu, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Ajay Singh, Chief Financial Officer. The said certificate
is annexed as Annexure 1 to this report.
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

159

14. General Body Meetings:
a)

Annual General Meeting:

		The Annual General Meetings of the Company were held through Video Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio Visual Means
(“OAVM”) at the registered office of the Company.
		

Details of the last three AGMs held are as below:
Financial Year

2022-2023
(April 2022 - Mar 2023)

No. of
AGM

4

Day & Date

Time (IST)

Thursday,
11:00 am
August 17, 2023

Special Resolutions passed

1.	Increase in the Borrowing Limits of the Company under Section
180(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013
2.	
Appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh (DIN: 00528252) as an
Independent Director of the Company

2021-2022
(Jan 2021 - Mar 2022)

3

Friday,
July 22, 2022

11:00 am

1.	Re-appointment of Mr. Mukesh Hari Butani (DIN: 01452839) as an
Independent Director of the Company.
2.	Re-appointment of Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (DIN: 06629992) as
an Independent Director of the Company.
3.	Re-appointment of Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) as an
Independent Director of the Company.

2020
(Jan 2020 - Dec 2020)

b)
		

c)

2

Thursday,
May 27, 2021

11:00 am

1.	Borrowing money in excess of the prescribed limit as per the
Companies Act, 2013

Extraordinary General Meeting:
There were no extraordinary general meetings held during the year.

Postal Ballot:

		There were no Special Resolutions passed through Postal Ballot during FY 2023-24. Further, no special resolution is
proposed to be passed through Postal Ballot as on the date of this report.
		However, during the year under review, the Company has passed Ordinary Resolution on March 10, 2024, approved,
with requisite majority. The Board of Directors had appointed Mr. S Kannan, (Membership No. FCS 6261/ CP No. 13016),
Practicing Company Secretary, as Scrutinizer for conducting the Postal Ballot voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
		

		

Details of Ordinary Resolution passed through Postal Ballot:
Financial Year

Date of passing of Resolution

Resolution passed

2023-2024
(April 1, 2023 - Mar 31, 2024)

March 10, 2024

Approval of Material Related Party Transactions with Hitachi
Energy Sweden AB

The details of the voting pattern are given below:
In favor
Voting through

No. of
Persons voted

No. of Votes

451

44,32,915

Remote e-voting
		

Against
%*

No. of
Persons voted

No. of Votes

99.98

10

967

%*

Result

0.02 Passed with
requisite majority

* % to the total No. of shares voted in the e-voting process

		Notes:
		

1.

8 shareholders holding 15,438 shares have abstained from voting.

		

2.

2 shareholders have voted less by 16,404 votes.

		The detailed note on procedure involved in passing of resolution through postal ballot is provided as a part of the outcome
of Postal Ballot and Scrutinizer’s Report is uploaded on the website of the Company at https://www.hitachienergy.com/
in/en/investor-relations/general-meetings#postal-ballot.

15. Means of Communication:
Financial Results:
	The quarterly/ half-yearly/ annual financial results are filed with stock exchanges and displayed on stock exchange websites. The
results are also made available on Company’s website. The results are published in Financial Express (English newspaper – all
India edition) and Vijaya Karnataka (Regional Newspaper).

160

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

	Additionally, quarterly results for the quarter ended December 31, 2023 and annual audited financial results for the quarter and
financial year ended March 31, 2024 were emailed to shareholders whose email addresses are registered with the Company/
Depository Participants.

Website:
	The financial results, press releases and the official news releases are also placed on the Company’s website at: https://www.
hitachienergy.com/in/en.
	The Company has a dedicated e-mail ID: investors@hitachienergy.com for providing necessary information/ assistance to
the investors.

Press Releases and Analysts/Investors’ Presentations:
	In addition to the above, after announcement of results, the Company holds conference call with investors / analysts. The
presentations made to institutional investors / analysts and transcript of the aforesaid conference call if any, is uploaded on the
Company’s website at: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/analyst-section.

Integrated Annual Report:
	Integrated Annual Report containing audited standalone financial statements together with Board’s Report, Auditors’ Report
and other reports/ information are circulated to members entitled thereto and is also made available on the Company website
at https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/general-meetings#annual-report.
The Indicative Calendar of Events for the Financial Year 2024-25 (April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025) is as follows:
First Quarter financial results

July 2024

Second Quarter financial results

October/ November 2024

Third Quarter financial results

February 2025

Fourth Quarter financial results

May 2025

	In terms of the circular issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, as a Green Initiative and pursuant to Section 101 and Section
136 of the Act, read with relevant Companies (Management and Administration Rules), 2014, and Regulation 36 of SEBI Listing
Regulations, soft copy of the Notice and the Board’s Report for the financial year 2024-25 would be circulated to the respective
e-mail IDs registered and available in Company’s records, wherever available. Members of the Company, who have registered
their email address, are entitled to receive such communication in physical form upon request only. For members whose e-mail
IDs are not available, the physical copy has been sent by permitted mode.

16. General Shareholder Information:
a)

Annual General Meeting:
Corporate Identity Number (CIN)

L31904KA2019PLC121597

Day, Date, and Time

Wednesday, August 21, 2024 at 11:00 a.m.

Venue/ Mode

The Company is conducting its 5th Annual General Meeting at Sheraton Grand Bengaluru Hotel,
Brigade Gateway Campus, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar, Bengaluru - 560055

Financial year

April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024

Date of Book Closure

The Company’s Register of Members and Share Transfer Books will remain closed for the purpose
of the Annual General Meeting from August 15, 2024 to August 21, 2024 (both days inclusive).

		As required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard 2, particulars of Director
seeking re-appointment at this AGM are given in the Annexure to the Notice convening AGM.

b)

Dividend Payment Date:

		The dividend of C 4.00 per Equity Share (200%) of face value of C 2.00 each, as recommended by the Board of Directors, if
declared at the ensuing Annual General Meeting will be paid on and from August 23, 2024, to those Shareholders whose
names appear on the Company’s Register of Members as on Wednesday, August 14, 2024.

c)

Listing on Stock Exchanges:

		The equity shares of the Company are currently listed with BSE Limited (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India
Limited (NSE). The Company has paid to date, the appropriate listing fee to both stock exchanges.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

161

d)

Name & Address of each stock exchange(s) at which the Company’s securities are listed:
BSE Limited (BSE),
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street,
Mumbai - 400 001.

e)

Stock Code for Equity Shares:

		NSE
		BSE
		ISIN

f)

National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE),
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Plot No. C/1, G Block, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E),
Mumbai - 400 051.

POWERINDIA
543187
INE07Y701011

Market Price Data:

		The market price data and volume of the Company’s shares traded in the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange
of India Limited, during the financial year 2023-24 were as follows:

g)

BSE SENSEX

BSE-K

Month

NSE-NIFTY

NSE-K

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

Apr-23

3391

3030

61209

58793

3396

3030

18089

17313

May-23

4093

3283

63036

61002

4095

3310

18662

18042

Jun-23

4291

3812

64769

62359

4294

3815

19202

18465

Jul-23

4370

3933

67619

64836

4365

3931

19992

19234

Aug-23

4800

3908

66658

64724

4800

3902

19796

19224

Sep-23

4680

4094

67927

64818

4687

4090

20222

19256

Oct-23

4661

3900

66592

63093

4661

3896

19850

18838

Nov-23

4940

4126

67070

63550

4948

4116

20159

18974

Dec-23

5380

4715

72484

67149

5380

4700

21801

20184

Jan-24

6280

5300

73428

70002

6280

5274

22124

21137

Feb-24

6528

5637

73414

70810

6520

5665

22298

21530

Mar-24

7437

5989

74245

71674

7450

6005

22527

21710

Performance in Comparison to Broad-Based Indices viz., BSE Sensex and NSE Nifty:

POWERINDIA Share Price movement v/s BSE Sensex
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024
8000

S&P BSE SENSEX

75,000

72240

70,000
65,000

61112

62622

64719

66528

64831

65828

72500

6965

66988
63875
5936

60,000

50,000

3846

4155

4403

5000

3943

4672

4000

4137

4107

3000

3304

2000

40,000
Apr-23

May-23

Jun-23

Jul-23

Aug-23

BSE Sensex

162

7000
6000

6008

5250

55,000

45,000

71752

73651

Sep-23

Oct-23

Nov-23

Dec-23

Hitachi Energy India Share Price

Jan-24

Feb-24

Mar-24

Hitachi Energy India Share price

80,000

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

POWERINDIA Share Price movement v/s NSE Nifty
April 01, 2023 - March 31, 2024

20000

18065

18534

19189

19754

19638

19254

19080

20133

21731

21726

CNX NIFTY

22327
6972

5930

3309

3846

4158

3942

4100

7000

5000

4672

4401

8000

6000

6004

5264

15000
10000

21983

4000

4143

3000
2000

5000

1000
0

0
Apr-23

May-23

Jun-23

Jul-23

Aug-23

Sep-23

NSE-Nifty

h)

Hitachi Energy India Share price

25000

Oct-23

Nov-23

Dec-23

Jan-24

Feb-24

Mar-24

Hitachi Energy India Share Price

Address for Correspondence:

		Registrar and Share Transfer Agents:
KFin Technologies Limited
		
Unit: Hitachi Energy India Limited
		
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District,
		
Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Serilingampally Mandal,
		
Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana
		
Phone No. 1- 800-309-4001
		e-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com
		Website: www.kfintech.com
		Name, designation & address of Compliance Officer:

i)

Contact Person

Address

Contact details

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda,
General Counsel, Company
Secretary & Compliance Officer

Hitachi Energy India Limited

Phone No: 080 68473700

Registered Office Address: 8th Floor,
Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560 092

Corporate Secretarial e-mail ID:
investors@hitachienergy.com
Corporate Website:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en

Share Transfer System:

		To enhance the ease of dealing in securities markets by investors, SEBI has mandated that listed companies shall henceforth
issue the securities in dematerialized form only (vide Gazette Notification no. SEBI/LADNRO/ GN/2022/66 dated January 24,
2022) while processing the service request mentioned in the above notification (viz., Issue of duplicate securities certificate,
Claim from Unclaimed Suspense Account, Transmission, Transposition, etc.). The transmission or transposition of shares is
being processed by the Registrar and Share Transfer Agents and approved by the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
In order to expedite the process, the Board of Directors has also delegated the authority jointly to any two of the Managing
Director (MD), CFO and the Company Secretary to approve share transmission, transposition, deletion of a name, etc., of
shares and accordingly, the same is being approved as per the request received and the report is placed for noting before
the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
		Further, SEBI vide its circular dated November 3, 2021, has introduced common and simplified norms for processing any
service request received from the shareholder related to furnishing PAN, KYC details, and Nomination by the Registrar
and Share Transfer Agents (“RTA”):
		
		
		
		

1.
2.
3.
4.

Electronic interface for processing investor’s queries, complaints and service request
Mandatory furnishing of PAN, KYC details and Nomination by holders of physical securities
Freezing of folios without valid PAN, KYC details and Nomination
Compulsory linking of PAN and Aadhaar by all holders of physical securities

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

163

		The Company has already sent the request letter to all those Shareholders whose PAN and KYC details are not updated
in the records of the Company and/ or Registrar and Transfer Agent. Communication was sent through registered post to
all those Shareholders wherein it was requested to update the required details in line with the aforesaid SEBI circular.
		SEBI vide its Circular dated January 25, 2022, has made it mandatory for compulsory credit of shares in demat form in case
of the request processed for the issue of duplicate shares, claim from Unclaimed suspense account, renewal/ exchange of
securities certificate, endorsement, Sub - division / Splitting of securities certificate, Consolidation of securities certificates/
folios, share transfer, share transmission, share transposition, issue of duplicate shares.
		Hence, the Members holding shares in physical form are requested to consider converting their holdings in a dematerialized
form. The Members who are desirous to convert their physical holdings into dematerialized form, may contact the Depository
Participant of their choice. The request for share transfer, transmission, transposition of shares, and deletion of name are
being processed by the Registrar and Share Transfer Agents and approved by the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
		

The following compliances pertain to share transfers, grievances, etc.:

		

•	Pursuant to Regulation 7(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, certificates are filed with the stock exchanges on yearly
basis by the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer of the Company and the representative of the Registrar and
Share Transfer Agent for maintenance of an appropriate share transfer facility. For the Financial year March 31, 2023
and March 31, 2024, the Company has filed this certificate within the prescribed time limit.

		

•	Pursuant to Regulation 13 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a statement on pending investor complaints is filed with
the stock exchanges and placed before the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and Board of Directors on a
quarterly basis.

		

•	Pursuant to Regulation 39(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, information regarding the loss of share certificates and
the issue of duplicate certificates, are submitted to the stock exchanges within 2 days of the Company receiving
the information.

		

•	Pursuant to Regulation 40(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company obtained the yearly certificate from a
Practicing Company Secretary certifying that, the RTA has issued all share certificates within 30 days of the date of
lodgment for transfer, subdivision, consolidation, renewal, exchange or endorsement of calls/ allotment monies and
this certificate is simultaneously filed with the Indian Stock Exchanges pursuant to Regulation 40(10) of the SEBI Listing
Regulations. For the Financial year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2024, the Company has filed this certificate
within the prescribed time limit.

		In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, securities can be transferred only in dematerialized
form w.e.f. 1 April 2019, except in case of request received for transmission or transposition of securities. Further w.e.f.
January 1, 2022, the securities can be credited only in demat form after completion of the process of request for deletion
of a name, share transfer, transmission, and transposition of shares.
		The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialized form. Members holding shares in physical form are
requested to consider converting their holdings to dematerialized form.

j)

Shareholding Pattern:
Shareholding

March 31, 2023

Total Shares

% Equity

Total Shares

% Equity

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

26,92,688
14,75,062
Nil
6,463
1,14,508
40,82,908
1,31,693
450
369
1,353
13,07,317
3,17,86,256

6.35
3.48
0.00
0.02
0.27
9.63
0.31
0.00
0.00
0.00
3.08
75.00

11,77,458
20,36,492
Nil
3,309
1,98,284
42,79,164
92,274
1,422
369
1,653
19,61,453
3,17,86,256

2.78
4.81
0.00
0.01
0.47
10.10
0.22
0.00
0.00
0.00
4.63
75.00

Nil
1,53,974
3,42,145
15,197
Nil
1,05,389
1,65,086
817
Nil
4,23,81,675

Nil
0.36
0.81
0.04
Nil
0.25
0.39
0.00
Nil
100.00

Nil
1,22,905
4,07,331
9,892
Nil
1,07,190
1,95,480
743
Nil
4,23,81,675

Nil
0.29
0.96
0.02
Nil
0.25
0.46
0.00
Nil
100.00

13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
Total

164

March 31, 2024

Sl. No. Description

Mutual Funds
Foreign Portfolio – Corp
Foreign Institutional Investors
Trusts
Alternative Investment Fund
Resident Individuals
Non-Resident Indians
Clearing Members
Indian Financial Institutions
Banks
Qualified Institutional Buyer
Foreign Promoter Bodies Corporate - Promoter
and Promoter group
Foreign Bank
Non-Resident Indian Non-Repatriable
Bodies Corporates
NBFC
Directors and their relatives
IEPF
HUF
Foreign Nationals
Foreign Portfolio Investors

Corporate Overview

k)

Financial Statements

Distribution of Shareholding (as on March 31, 2024):
Category

No. of Shareholders

No. of Shares held

% of equity capital

1 – 5,000

62,364

40,41,235

9.54

5,001 – 10,000

41

2,93,785

0.69

10,001 – 50,000

57

13,92,386

3.29

50,001 – 100,000

9

6,10,600

1.44

100,001 and above

18

3,60,43,669

85.05

62,489

4,23,81,675

100.00

Total

l)

Statutory Reports

Integrated Report

Dematerialization of Shares and Liquidity:

		The equity shares of the Company are available under the dematerialized form with National Securities Depository Limited
(NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
		The Company’s equity shares are compulsorily traded in the dematerialized form. The shares are assigned the International
Securities Identification Number (ISIN) INE07Y701011 under the Depository system.
		As on March 31, 2024, out of 4,23,81,675 equity shares of the Company 4,21,54,779 equity shares have been dematerialized
representing 99.47 percent. The Company confirms that the promoters’ holdings continued to be in electronic form and
the same is in line with the circulars issued by SEBI.
		Members who are still holding shares in physical form are requested to dematerialize their shares at the earliest, this will
be more advantageous to deal in securities. For queries/ clarification/ assistance, shareholders are advised to approach
the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents.

m)	Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or any Convertible Instruments, Conversion Date and Likely
Impact on Equity:
		The Company has not issued GDRs, ADRs or any other Convertible Instruments and as such, there is no impact on the
equity share capital of the Company.

n)

Commodity Price Risk / Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging activities:

		The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk on account of import and export transactions entered and it is exposed
to commodity price risk on account of procurement of base metals (Copper and Aluminum) to be used in manufacturing
activities. Details of commodities exposure during the year under review are provided below:
		

a)

Total Exposure of the Company to commodities is C 4,21,94,46,052/-.

		

b)

Exposure of the Company to various commodities:
Commodity
Name

		

c)

Exposure in K
towards the particular
commodity

Exposure in Quantity
terms toward the
particular commodity

% of such exposure hedged through commodity derivatives
Domestic market

International market

OTC

Exchange

OTC

Exchange

Total

Copper

3,66,67,96,387

4778 MT

-

-

-

-

-

Aluminum

55,26,49,665

1669 MT

-

-

2%

-

2%

Commodity risks faced by the Company during the financial year and how they have been managed.

			The Company is a sizable user of various commodities which exposes it to price risk on account of the procurement of
commodities. The Company is proactively mitigating these risks by entering into commensurate hedging transactions
with banks as per applicable guidelines and group risk management instructions.
			As a part of your Company’s risk management strategy, the customer contracts are generally negotiated with price
variation clause to mitigate the commodity price risk.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

165

o)
		

Plant Locations:
The plant locations of the Company are as detailed below:
Particulars of Plant Location

State

Plot No. 4A, 5 & 6, 2nd Phase, Peenya Industrial Area, Peenya, Bengaluru - 560 058
Sy No. 30, Thammashettihalli Village, Kasaba Hobli, Dodaballapura Taluk, Bengaluru Rural - 562 163

Karnataka

Mysuru-Ooty Road, Thandavapura, Mysuru - 571 302
Sy No. 211, Halol-Champaner Road, Panchmahal P.O. Chandrapura, Halol - 391 520
Plot No. 25 & 26, Alindra Manjusar, Savli - GIDC, Vadodara - 391 775
Plot No. 42 & 43, Alindra Manjusar, Savli - GIDC, Vadodara - 391 775

Gujarat

Maneja, Vadodara - 390 013
Plot No. 3, Mahindra World City Industrial Park, Phase-V, 1st Cross Road, 8th Avenue, Etchankaranai Village,
Chengalpattu Taluk, Kanchipuram - 603 004

p)

Tamil Nadu

Code of Conduct:

		As required under Listing Regulations, the Company has in place a Code of Conduct applicable to the Board Members as
well as the Senior Management Personnel and that the same has been hosted on the Company’s website. Consequent to
change in name of the Company, the revised Code of conduct was approved by NRC Committee in the meeting held on
November 6, 2023 and by Board of Directors at their meeting held on November 6, 2023. All the Board Members and the
Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct, as on March 31, 2024. A certificate
to that effect is annexed as Annexure 2.
		In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, the
Company has, inter-alia, adopted a Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading Code of Practices and Procedures
for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (Code) duly revised on February 9, 2022.
		As per the above Code, Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda is the Compliance Officer and Mr. Ajay Singh, Chief Financial Officer
is the Chief Investor Relations Officer.

q)	Company affirms that all the requirements under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 are complied with.

r)

Debenture Trustees - Not Applicable.

s)	Details of utilization of funds raised through preferential allotment or qualified institutions placement as specified under
Regulation 32(7A)-Not applicable.

t)	Where the board had not accepted any recommendation of any committee of the board, which is mandatorily required in
the relevant financial year, the same to be disclosed along with reasons thereof - Not applicable.

u)	Total fees for all services paid by the listed entity and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the statutory auditor and
all entities in the network firm / network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part:
		During the financial year under review, the Company did not have any subsidiaries. Based on the recommendation of the
Audit Committee and Board of Directors, Shareholders approved the appointment of M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP,
Chartered Accountants (Registration No. 101049W/E300004) as the Statutory Auditors of the Company commencing
from the conclusion of the 1st Annual General Meeting to hold such office for a period of 5 years till the conclusion of 6th
Annual General Meeting. Remuneration approved was C 1,44,45,312.50/- (Rupees One Crore Forty Four Lakhs Forty Five
Thousand Three Hundred and Thirteen only) for the financial year 2023-24 (April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024) plus applicable
taxes in connection with the statutory audit of the Company and related services.
		

The details of the payment to be made for the financial year 2023-24 are as follows:
(Amount in K Lakhs)

Statutory audit fees (inclusive of out-of-pocket expenses)

68.00

Tax audit fees

18.00

Limited review fees

42.00

Group audit fees

16.00

Other certification fees

15.00

Reimbursement of expenses

2.00

Total

166

161.00

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

v)	Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, 2013:
		

a)

number of complaints filed during the financial year: Nil

		

b)

number of complaints disposed of during the financial year: Nil

		

c)

number of complaints pending as on the end of the financial year: Nil

		Further, the Company has a web portal known as “Hitachi Energy Ethics Web Portal” wherein employees can report/ raise
the workplace harassment concerns/ related incidents. The sexual harassment complaints as received via this portal was
investigated and brought to the attention of the Audit Committee of the Board from time to time.

w) Disclosures on Corporate Governance Report:
		The Board hereby confirms that it has complied with all the mandatory requirements of Corporate Governance as specified
in sub paras (2) to (10) of Part C of Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations and disclosures on compliance with corporate
governance requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 have been included in the relevant sections of this report and
the Company has obtained a certificate from M/s. V. Sreedharan & Associates, regarding compliance of conditions of
Corporate Governance as stipulated in this clause. The said certificate is annexed as Annexure 3 to this report.

x)

Disclosures with respect to Demat Suspense Account / Unclaimed Suspense Account:

		Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, 799 Equity shares of C 2/- each of Hitachi Energy India Limited (formerly known
as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited) was credited into the demat account of Unclaimed suspense account
on December 24, 2019. There was no change in the shareholding of the Unclaimed suspense account during the financial
year 2023-24.
		It may be noted that pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement (Demerger), the Equity shares in demat form were automatically
credited into the Unclaimed shares account and Investors Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Account and the voting
rights thereon have been frozen till the shares are claimed by the rightful owners.

		

Details are given below:

		

Shares credited to IEPF account: 1,07,421 Equity shares were allotted on December 24, 2019.

		During the financial year under review, out of 1,07,190 Equity shares which remained as unclaimed with IEPF authorities as
on March 31, 2023, the claim for 1,801 Equity shares were approved by the IEPF Authorities as claimed by the individual
shareholders and approved by the Company from time to time. Balance shares remaining in IEPF account as on March
31, 2024, is 1,05,389.
		

y)

Shares credited to Unclaimed Suspense account on December 24, 2019:
The aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying
at the beginning of the year.

799 Equity shares – 6 Shareholders

The number of shareholders who approached the issuer for the transfer of shares from the
suspense account during the year.

NIL

Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from the suspense account during the
year.

NIL

The aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying
at the end of the year.

799 Equity shares – 6 Shareholders

Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding listed entities:

		Not Applicable

z)	Disclosure by the Listed Entity and its Subsidiaries of ‘Loans and Advances in the Nature of Loans
to Firms/Companies in which Directors are Interested by Name and Amount:
		The Company does not have any subsidiaries. The Company has not given any loans or advances to firms/companies in
which Directors are interested during the financial year ended March 31, 2024.

aa) Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report:
		A Company Secretary-in-Practice carries out a Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit on a quarterly basis, as per Regulation
76 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018 read with SEBI Circular
No. D&CC / FITTC/Cir- 16/2002 dated December 31, 2002, to reconcile the total admitted capital with depositories viz.,
National Securities Depository Limited (‘NSDL’) and Central Depository Services Limited (‘CDSL’) and the total issued and
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

167

listed capital. The audit confirms that the total issued/ paid up capital is in agreement with the aggregate of the total number
of shares in physical form and the total number of shares in dematerialized form (held with NSDL and CDSL).

bb) Disclosures:
		

i)

Disclosures on Materially Significant Related Party Transactions:

			There was no materially significant related party transaction during the financial year having a potential conflict with
the interests of the Company. Transactions with related parties, as per requirements of Indian Accounting Standard
24, are disclosed in the notes to accounts annexed to the financial statements. Further, the Company has not entered
into any transaction of a material nature with the Promoters, subsidiaries of Promoters, Directors or their relatives, etc.
that may have potential conflict with the interests of the Company.
			All the transactions with related parties were in the ordinary course of business and on an arm’s length basis, except
transactions, which are disclosed in the Board’s Report. In terms of Regulation 23 of Listing Regulations, the Company
obtains prior approval of the Audit Committee for entering into any transaction with related parties from time to time.
			Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions can be viewed in the Company’s website. The link for the same is:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance#policies

		

ii)	Details of Non-Compliance by the Company, Penalties and Strictures Imposed on the Company by
the Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any Statutory Authorities, on any matter related to Capital Markets
during the Last Three Years:

			During last three years, neither any penalty nor any stricture has been passed by SEBI, Stock Exchanges or any other
Statutory Authority on matters relating to capital markets.

		

iii)	Whistle Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism and Affirmation that No Personnel has been Denied Access
to the Audit Committee:

			The Company has adopted Whistle Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism for directors, employees and third parties to report
their concerns about unethical or inappropriate behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s
Code of Conduct/ Business Ethics, leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI) and related matters. This
mechanism also provides adequate safeguards against the victimization of whistle blowers who avail of the whistle
blower / vigil mechanism. The whistle blowers may also access their higher level/ supervisors and/ or the Audit
Committee. No personnel has been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, for making the complaint
on any Integrity issue.
			The updated Whistle Blower Policy can be viewed on the Company’s website at: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/
en/about-us/integrity/reporting-channels/whistleblower-protection-policy

		

iv)	
Details of Compliance with Mandatory Requirements and Adoption of the Non-Mandatory
Requirements under the Listing Regulations:

			During the financial year 2023-24, the Company has fully complied with the mandatory requirements as stipulated in
Listing Regulations.
			The Company has adopted item E of the non-mandatory requirements as provided in Part E of Schedule II to the
Listing Regulations which are discretionary requirements.

		v)

Discretionary Requirements:

			

•

			

•	The quarterly financial results are published in newspapers of wide circulation. Additionally, quarterly results for
the quarter ended December 31, 2023 and annual audited financial results for the quarter and financial year
ended March 31, 2024 are emailed to Shareholders whose email addresses are registered with the Company/
Depository Participants. Further, the financial results are available on the website of the Company and of Stock
Exchanges where the shares of the Company are listed i.e., BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of
India Limited.

			

•

			

•	The Board of Directors of Hitachi Energy India Limited has a Non-Executive Chairman i.e. Mr. Achim Michael
Braun and Mr. Nuguri Venu is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. There is no
relationship between the persons occupying these posts.

			

•

168

The Company does not maintain a separate office for the Non-Executive Chairman.

The Auditors’ opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified.

Internal Auditor has been appointed and reports directly to the Audit Committee.

Corporate Overview

		

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

vi)	Other requirements as stipulated in SEBI Listing Regulations and for the Corporate Governance
Report:

			

Confirmation from Board regarding Independent Directors’ Criteria:

			The Board of Directors confirms that in their opinion, the Independent Directors fulfill the conditions specified under
the Companies Act, 2013 and of SEBI Listing Regulations and are independent of the management.
			Credit Ratings:
			The Company does not have any debt instrument, fixed deposit program or scheme or proposal for the mobilization
of funds. However, for short-term borrowings, the Company obtained a credit rating. The details are as follows:
			As on August 29, 2023, CRISIL Ratings has reaffirmed its ‘CRISIL AAA/Stable/CRISIL A1+’ ratings to the bank facilities
of the Company as follows:
Total Bank Loan Facilities Rated

C 6,000 Crores

Long-Term Rating

CRISIL AAA/Stable (Reaffirmed)

Short-Term Rating

CRISIL A1+ (Reaffirmed)

vii)	Certificate from a company secretary in practice that none of the directors on the board of the Company has been
debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of the Company by the Board / Ministry of
Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority:
			Appended as Annexure 4
By order of the Board
For Hitachi Energy India Limited

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

169

Annexure 1

MD/ CFO CERTIFICATE
To,
The Board of Directors,
Hitachi Energy India Limited
We certify that:
A.	We have reviewed the financial statements and the cash flow statement of Hitachi Energy India Limited for the financial year
ended March 31, 2024, and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
1.	These statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that might
be misleading.
2.	These statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.	To the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the period are fraudulent, illegal
or violates the code of conduct of the Company.
C.	We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls over financial reporting and that we have evaluated
the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company over financial reporting, and we have disclosed to the Auditors and
the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls over financial reporting, if any, of which
we are aware and the steps we have taken, propose to take, to rectify these deficiencies. In our opinion, there are adequate
internal controls over financial reporting;
D.

We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee that there are:
1.

No significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the period.

2.

No significant changes in the accounting policies; and

3.	No instances of fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement there in, if any, of the management or an
employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control systems over financial reporting.
E.	We affirm that we have not denied any personnel access to the Audit Committee of the Company, and we have provided
protection to whistle-blowers from unfair termination and other unfair or prejudicial employment practices.
	We further declare that all Board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of
Conduct and Ethics for the period covered by this report.

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director and CEO
DIN: 07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Annexure 2
Declaration by the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer under Listing Regulations regarding compliance
with Business Conduct Guidelines (Code of Conduct)
In accordance with the Listing Regulations, I hereby confirm that all the Directors and the Senior Management Personnel of the
Company have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them, for the financial year ended March 31, 2024.

For Hitachi Energy India Limited
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

170

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director and CEO
DIN: 07032076

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Annexure 3
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
Corporate Identity No.

: L31904KA2019PLC121597

Nominal Capital

: C 10 Crores

To,
The Members of HITACHI ENERGY INDIA LIMITED,
We have examined all the relevant records of HITACHI ENERGY INDIA LIMITED for the purpose of certifying compliance of the
conditions of the Corporate Governance under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for
the financial year ended March 31, 2024. We have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge
and belief were necessary for the purposes of certification.
The compliance of conditions of corporate governance is the responsibility of the Management. Our examination was limited
to the procedure and implementation process adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of the
corporate governance.
This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the
management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations and information furnished to us, we certify that
the Company has complied with all the mandatory conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the said Regulations. As
regards Discretionary Requirements specified in Part E of Schedule II of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 the Company has complied with item C, D and E.
For V. Sreedharan & Associates
Company Secretaries
(Pradeep B. Kulkarni)
Partner
FCS: 7260; CP No.: 7835
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024
UDIN: F007260F000410124
Peer Review Certificate No.: 5543/2024

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

171

Annexure 4
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)

To,
The Members of
HITACHI ENERGY INDIA LIMITED
8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560 092
We have examined the relevant records and disclosures received from the Directors of HITACHI ENERGY INDIA LIMITED
having CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597 and having registered office at 8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560 092 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this
Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN)
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, we
hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ended on March 31, 2024
have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
Details of Directors:
Sl. No. Name of Director

DIN

Date of appointment in Company

1

Mr. Mukesh Hari Butani

01452839

24/12/2019

2

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

06629992

24/12/2019

3

Mr. Nuguri Venu

07032076

02/12/2019

4

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

08596097

25/02/2021

5

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

08598862

25/02/2021

6

Ms. Meena Ganesh

00528252

24/05/2023

* Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) tendered her resignation as the Independent Director of the Company effective from 24.05.2023.

Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as
to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of
the Company.
For V. Sreedharan & Associates
(Pradeep B. Kulkarni)
Partner
FCS: 7260; CP No.: 7835
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024
UDIN: F007260F000409851
Peer Review Certificate No.: 5543/2024

172

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Annexure - D to Board’s Report
Form MR-3

SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2024
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
Managerial Personnel) Rules 2014]
To,
The Members,
Hitachi Energy India Limited
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Registered Address: 8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401,
Kodigehalli, Main Road, Bengaluru - 560 092.
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate
practices by Hitachi Energy India Limited (hereinafter called the “Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that
provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained
by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial
year ended on March 31, 2024 (April 1, 2023 to 31st March 2024), complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also
that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to
the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed, and other records maintained by the Company for the
financial year ended on 31st March 2024, according to the provisions of:
i.	The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Rules made thereunder;
ii.	The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the Rules made thereunder;
iii.	The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Byelaws framed thereunder;
iv.	Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings.
v.	The Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):
(a)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(b)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(c)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 2018; – Not
Applicable as the Company did not issue any security during the financial year under review.
(d)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Benefits Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021; - Not
Applicable as the Company does not have Employee Stock Option Scheme for its employees;
(e)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 and Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021; – Not applicable as the
Company has not issued any debt securities during the financial year under review;
(f)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding
the Companies Act and dealing with client; - Not applicable as the Company is not registered as Registrar to an Issue and
Share Transfer Agent during the financial year under review;
(g)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; – Not applicable as the Company
has not delisted its equity shares from any stock exchange during the financial year under review; and
(h)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; - Not Applicable as the Company
has not done any buyback of its securities during the financial year under review.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

173

vi.	The Company has identified the following laws as specifically applicable to the Company:
1.	Factories Act, 1948 & the Central Rules or concerned State Rules, made thereunder
2.

Boilers Act, 1923 & Rules made thereunder

3.

Electricity Act, 2003

4.

Indian Explosives Act, 1884

5.	Gas Cylinder Rules, 1981 (under Indian Explosives Act)
6.	Static and Mobile Pressure Vessels (Unfired) Rules, 1981 (under Indian Explosives Act)
7.

Environment (Protection) Act, 1986

8.	The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 & Central Rules/ concerned State Rules.
9.	The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 & Central Rules/ concerned State Rules
10.	Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989
11.	Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989
12.	The Contract Labor (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules.
13.	The Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 & EPF, FPF Schemes.
14.	The Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules.
15.	The Minimum Wages Act, 1948 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules/ Notification of Minimum Wages applicable to
various class of industries/ Trade.
16.	The Payment of Wages Act, 1936 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules if any.
17.	The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules if any.
18.	The Payment of Gratuity Act & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules if any.
19. The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 & its Rules.
20. The Equal Remuneration Act, 1976.
21.	The Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 & its Rules.
22. The Apprentices Act, 1961 & its Rules.
23.	The Employment Exchange (Compulsory Notification of Vacancies) Act, 1959.
24. The Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923
25. The Industrial Dispute Act, 1947
26.	The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
27. The Information Technology Act, 2000
	We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
(i)	Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI)
(ii)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015; (“LODR
Regulations”)
	During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,
Standards, etc. mentioned above.
	However, on May 2, 2023, the Company has received a request from certain members of the promoter and promoter group
asking to reclassify their shareholdings from the ‘Promoter’ category to the ‘Public’ category. Following this request, on June 7,
2023, the Company has submitted an application to the BSE Limited (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited
(NSE) seeking to reclassify these individuals in accordance with Regulation 31A of the LODR Regulations. Further, there was a
one day late filing of the notification with the stock exchanges after submitting the reclassification application as required under
Regulation 31A(8)(c). As a result, the stock exchanges issued advisory letters to the Company for this delay.
	Further, the stock exchanges granted approval for the reclassification application on October 6, 2023. The approval allows the
specified individuals to be moved from the ‘Promoter’ category to the ‘Public’ category, in line with the Company’s application.

174

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

We further report that:	The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors
and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period under
review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
	Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at
least seven days in advance. Further, a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the
agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
	Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting members’ if any, views are captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
As per the minutes of the meetings, the decisions of the Board were taken unanimously.
	We further report that based on review of compliance mechanism established by the Company and on the basis of the
Compliance Certificate(s) issued by the Company Secretary and other department heads, which were taken on record by
the Board of Directors at their meeting(s), we are of the opinion that the management has adequate systems and processes
commensurate with its size and operations, to monitor and ensure compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations
and guidelines.
	As informed, the Company has responded to notices for demands, claims, penalties etc. levied by various statutory / regulatory
authorities and initiated actions for corrective measures, wherever necessary.
	There were no other specific events/actions in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines etc., having
a major bearing on the Company’s affairs.
For BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024
PR No.: 736/2020

Pramod S M
Partner
FCS No.: 7834 CP No.: 13784
UDIN: F007834F000417243

This report to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of
this report.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

175

‘Annexure A’
To,
The Members,
Hitachi Energy India Limited
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Registered Address: 8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560 092
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1.	Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Account of the Company.
4.	Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and
happening of events etc.
5.	The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, Rules, Regulations, standards is the responsibility of
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
7.	We further report that, based on the information provided by the Company its officers, authorized representatives during the
conduct of the audit and also on the review of quarterly compliance report by the respective departmental heads/Company
Secretary/Managing Director taken on record by the Board of the Company, in our opinion adequate systems and process and
control mechanism exist in the Company to monitor compliance with applicable general laws like labor laws & Environment laws
and Data protection policy.
8.	We further report that the Compliance by the Company of applicable Financial laws like Direct & Indirect tax laws has not been
reviewed in this audit since the same has been subject to review by the statutory financial audit and other designated professionals.
For BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024
PR No.: 736/2020

176

Pramod S M
Partner
FCS No.: 7834 CP No.: 13784
UDIN: F007834F000417243

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Annexure - E to Board’s Report
FORM AOC-2

[Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred to in sub‑section
(1) of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso thereto: Details of the contract entered into with related parties during the financial year 2023-24 (April 1, 2023 to March 31,
2024):
1.

Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis:

	There were no contracts or arrangements, or transactions entered into during the financial year ended March 31, 2024, which
were not at arm’s length basis.
2.

Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis:

	There was a transaction entered into during the financial year ended March 31, 2024, which was material in nature and at an
arm’s length basis:
Name(s) of the
related party
and nature of the
relationship

Nature of contracts/
arrangements/
transactions

Duration of
the contracts/
arrangements/
transactions

Salient terms of the contracts or
arrangements or transactions
including the value, if any

Date(s) of
approval by
the Board, if
any

Amount paid as
advances, if any
(in K Crores)

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

Hitachi Energy
Sweden AB (“HE
Sweden”)

January 23,
Sale or purchase of
Financial Year 2023- Terms and conditions vary based
on various order(s)/ contract(s)/
2024
product(s), component(s), 24 (i.e., April 1,
system(s) and / or rendering 2023 to March 31, agreement(s)
or receipt of services under 2024)
•	Delivery of Materials – generally
multiple orders, for an
FCA/ FOB/ DAP/CPT
aggregate value of up to
•	
Payment terms – generally 30-120
C 700 Crores entered into/
days
to be entered during the
•
Indirect Taxes as applicable
financial year 2023-24 (i.e.,
April 1, 2023 to March 31,
•	Currency – primarily Swedish
2024).
Krona (SEK)/ United States Dollar
(USD)

Up to C 700
Crores

•	Such other conditions customary
to the context of the contract(s) /
agreement(s)

	In addition, the Company has entered into following related party transactions which were at arm’s length but not in the
ordinary course of business:
Name(s) of the
related party
and nature of the
relationship

Nature of
contracts/
arrangements/
transactions

(a)

(b)

ABB India Limited

Duration of
the contracts/
arrangements/
transactions
(in months)

Salient terms of the contracts or
arrangements or transactions
including the value, if any

Date(s) of approval by the
Board, if any

(c)

(d)

(e)

Availing of Power /
DG services

3

Arrangement for payment of electricity
charges for the Peenya factory
locations pursuant to Scheme of
Arrangement

May 23, 2023 (which
adjourned and concluded
on May 24, 2023)

0.758

ABB India Limited

Providing Power /
DG services

6

Arrangement for payment of electricity
charges for the Maneja factory
locations pursuant to Scheme of
Arrangement

May 23, 2023 (which
adjourned and concluded
on May 24, 2023)

4.875

ABB Information
Systems Ltd.

Availing IT Service
Agreement

12

IT Support Service Agreement entered May 23, 2023 (which
with ABB Information Systems Ltd.,
adjourned and concluded
Zurich, Switzerland (CHGPL) pertaining on May 24, 2023)
to financial year 2022-23

0.06

ABB Information
Systems Ltd.

Availing IT Service
Agreement

12

IT Support Service Agreement entered May 23, 2023 (which
with ABB Information Systems Ltd.,
adjourned and concluded
Zurich, Switzerland (CHGPL) for the
on May 24, 2023)
financial year 2023-24

2.00

Amount
(in K Crores)

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

(f)

177

Name(s) of the
related party
and nature of the
relationship

Nature of
contracts/
arrangements/
transactions

Duration of
the contracts/
arrangements/
transactions
(in months)

Salient terms of the contracts or
arrangements or transactions
including the value, if any

Date(s) of approval by the
Board, if any

Amount
(in K Crores)

Hitachi Energy
Availing IT Service
Holdings Ltd.
Agreement
[formerly known
as ABB PG Power
Grids Ltd. (CHPPG)]

12

Availing IT Service Agreement with ABB May 23, 2023 (which
PG Power Grids Ltd., (CHPPG) for the adjourned and concluded
financial year 2023-24
on May 24, 2023)

96.35

Hitachi Energy
REIWA and TSA
Holdings Ltd.
Exit Additional
[formerly known
Cost
as ABB PG Power
Grids Ltd. (CHPPG)]

12

REIWA and TSA exit charges additional cost

May 23, 2023 (which
adjourned and concluded
on May 24, 2023)

32.40

ABB India Limited

Availing of Power /
DG services

3

Arrangement for payment of electricity
charges for Peenya factory locations
pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement

July 25, 2023

0.758

ABB India Limited

Stamp duty
towards the
transfer of assets/
title deeds

N/A

Payment of stamp duty, for the property July 25, 2023
of the Company situated in Gujarat
pursuant to the Demerger of Power
Grids business from ABB India Limited

12.50

ABB India Limited

Availing IT Service
Agreement

12

Extension of Local Service Agreement
for availing local IS infrastructure, local
IS management and related services

November 6, 2023

1.85

Availing IT Service
ABB Global
Business Services Agreement
and Contracting
India Private Limited

12

Extension of Local Service Agreement
for availing local IS infrastructure, local
IS management, network connectivity,
Non-ERP applications and related
services

November 6, 2023

4.60

ABB Information
Availing IT Service
Systems Ltd.,
Agreement
Zurich, Switzerland
(CHGPL)

12

Extension of Local Service Agreement
for availing global ERP (Enterprise
Resources Planning) application
management, global ERP application
licenses, global application operations
and support and related services

November 6, 2023

6.68

Hitachi Energy
Availing IT Service
Holdings Ltd.
Agreement
[formerly known
as ABB PG Power
Grids Ltd. (CHPPG)]

12

Extension of Local Service Agreement
for availing certain IT related services

November 6, 2023

32.57

Hitachi Energy
IS cost allocation
Technology Services
Private Limited
(INAPT)

12

Allocating Global Technology and
Innovation Center (Indian Operation
Center - INOPC) business unit related
IS Cost

November 6, 2023

2.19

Notes:
•	All above related party transactions with ABB India Limited and other related parties which are not in the “ordinary course
of business”, were necessitated consequent to the Demerger of Power Grids Business during the year 2019.
•	Consequent to receipt of necessary approvals from the Stock Exchanges vide their letters dated October 6, 2023, ABB Asea
Brown Boveri Ltd, ABB Switzerland Ltd, and ABB Ltd, have been reclassified from ‘Promoter/Promoter Group Category’
to ‘Public Category’. Accordingly, ABB group entities ceased to a related party effective from October 6, 2023.
By order of the Board
For Hitachi Energy India Limited

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

178

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Annexure - F to Board’s Report
Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) Activities
1.

Brief outline of the CSR policy of the Company:
Corporate Social Responsibility policy of Hitachi Energy India Limited

	Hitachi Energy India Limited (“the Company”) as a responsible Corporate entity strives to reach out to the wider community to
ensure the well-being of the needy as a part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”). The Company has always believed
in and contributed to society. Along with sustained economic performance, environmental and social stewardship is also a key
factor for holistic business growth and is internalized as an integral part of the Company’s Strategy.
	The Company views corporate social responsibility as a channel to further its cause of “bringing power to all by shaping the
future of sustainable energy”. The Company is committed to sustainable and inclusive development of the community’s social
capital through active engagement.
The Company has formulated a Policy for its CSR and also identified the following key areas for undertaking CSR activities:
•

Promote gender equality and empowering of women in the engineering work force

		To promote gender equality by ensuring initiatives to empower / advancement of women and in the engineering work force,
thereby increasing diversity and inclusion.
•

Endorse education, employability & health care

		To create necessary infrastructure and resources to enable the promotion of primary education among children and impart
vocational skills training to the youth, promoting health care including preventive health care.
•

Social impact projects

		To collaborate with communities to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access to electricity in the country,
especially in rural areas for its development.
•

Support national disaster management and other government initiatives

		To actively support national disaster management including relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities and support
in other initiatives for promoting, including preventive measures for health care systems, hygiene and sanitation.
•

Aid in sustainable development goals

		To promote an ecosystem for sustainable development goals by encouraging the usage of indigenous, innovative and
sustainable solutions by aiding, developing, promoting, facilitating and undertaking testing of new frontiers of science,
technology, engineering, and environment in partnership with like-minded institutions, incubators and sponsors.
	The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy is available at the following link: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/
investor-relations/corporate-governance#policies

2.

Composition of the CSR Committee:
No. of meetings of
CSR Committee held
during the year

No. of meetings of CSR
Committee attended
during the year

Chairperson, Independent Director

4

4

Member, Managing Director and CEO

4

4

Member, Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director

4

4

Sl.
No.

Members of the Committee

Designation

1.

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

2.

Mr. Nuguri Venu

3.

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

3.	Provide the web-link where the Composition of the CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects
approved by the board are disclosed on the website of the Company:
Composition of CSR committee

https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/board-of-directors

CSR Policy

https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance#policies

CSR projects approved by the board

https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance#corporate-socialresponsibility--csr-

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

179

4.	Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried
out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
Rules, 2014, if applicable:
Not Applicable

5.

6.

Disclosures:
(a)

Average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5): C 183.88 Crores

(b)

Two percent of the average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5): C 3.68 Crores for the financial year 2023-24

(c)

Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs or activities of the previous financial years: Nil

(d)

Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: Nil

(e)

Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: C 3.68 Crores for the financial year 2023-24.

Details:
(a)

Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): C 1.42 Crores

(b)

Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: C 0.086 Crores

(c)

Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Nil

(d)

Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: C 1.51 Crores

(e)

CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Amount Unspent (in K)
Total Amount Spent
for the Financial
Year (in K)

1,50,90,459

(f)

Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR
account as per section 135(6)

Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as
per the second proviso to section 135(5)

Amount

Date of transfer

Name of fund

Amount

Date of transfer

2,16,86,208

April 29, 2024

-

-

-

Excess amount for setoff, if any: NIL
Sl. No. Particulars

7.

Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)

3,67,76,667

(ii)

Total amount spent for the financial year

1,50,90,459

(iii)

Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]

-

(iv)

Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs or activities of the previous financial years, if any

-

(v)

Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]

-

Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three financial years:
1

Sl.
No.

180

Amount (K)

(i)

2

Preceding FY

3

4

Amount
transferred to
Balance Amount
Unspent CSR
in Unspent CSR
Account under
Account under
sub-section (6) of sub-section (6) of
section 135
section 135 (K)
(K)

5
Amount
Spent in
the
Financial
Year (K)

6

7

Amount transferred to a
Fund as specified under
Schedule VII as per second
proviso to sub-section (5) of
section 135, if any
Amount (K)

Date of
Transfer

8

Amount
remaining to
be spent in
Deficiency,
succeeding
if any
Financial Years
(K)

1

FY 2020 (January 1,
2020 to December
31, 2020)

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2

FP 2021-22 (January
1, 2021 to March 31,
2022)

-

1,055

1,055

-

-

-

-

3

FY 2022-23 (April 1,
2022 to March 31,
2023)

2,61,87,013

2,61,87,013

46,01,010

-

-

2,15,86,003

-

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

8.	Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility
amount spent in the Financial Year: Nil
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/acquired:
	Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the
Financial Year:

Sl.
No.

Short particulars of the property
or asset(s) [including complete
address and location of the
property]

1

-

Pin code of
the property
or asset(s)

Date of
creation

Amount of
CSR spent

2

3

4

-

-

-

Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the
registered owner
CSR Registration
Number, if
Applicable

Name

Registered
address

5

6.i

6.ii

6.iii

-

-

-

-

	(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/Municipal Corporation/
Gram panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries)

9.	Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two percent of the average net profit as per
section 135(5):
	During the year under review the Company was required to spend C 3.68 Crores, out of which the Company has spent C 1.51
Crores and an amount of C 2.17 Crores remain unutilized due to the work being incomplete/ not due for payment to vendors/
service providers which includes multi-year projects. The Company has transferred the unutilized amount(s) to a specified
separate bank account in accordance with the Act and the same will be utilized and spent within the prescribed time limits.
By order of the Board
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director and CEO
(DIN: 07032076)

Akila Krishnakumar
Chairperson - CSR Committee
(DIN: 06629992)

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

181

Annexure - G to Board’s Report
Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange
earnings and outgo.
Pursuant to provisions of Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.

A. Conservation of energy:
1.

Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:


Lighting:

		

•	Mysuru location: Replacement of metal halide lamps with light-emitting diodes (LED) Lightings (60 numbers) - saves
3units/ hour in Low Tension side.

		

•	Halol location: Installed 09 numbers of solar street lights on the factory roof which has resulted in saving of energy.
Power saving in lighting achieved by installing motion sensors in washrooms and meeting rooms.



Equipment:

		

•	Mysuru location: 5 numbers of star delta starters replaced with available spare drives – It has saved 25kwh (units) per
hour in Low tension side. Faulty Capacitors are replaced with new capacitors with capacity 200KVAR in Low Tension
side (Power Factor increased from 0.94 to 0.96)

		

•	Savli location: In Dry & Traction factory, a new dedicated 5.5 KW compressor was installed for the casting plant which
has reduced the operation of 30 KW Centralized compressor system. This has minimized the losses occurred due
to the running of higher rated centralized compressor and projected yearly energy saving of 35,868 kWh.

		

•	Maneja: Vapour Phased Drying (VPD1) Existing Chiller replaced with new higher capacity chiller. Vapour Phased Drying
(VPD2) Cooling tower to be replaced with chiller unit; HVLS (High Volume Low Speed) installation in winding area for
improvement in humidity level as well comfort level.



Process improvements:

		

•	Maneja location: Optimized operation of Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) system in Canteen.
Automated the operation of HVAC by installing Bluetooth based time switch, motorized Molded Case Circuit Breaker
(MCCB) and by modifying the wiring in the canteen. This has resulted in saving of energy by minimizing the operation
of HVAC in non-peak hours and expects estimated saving of 96,000 kWh per annum.

		

•	Halol location: Stopped fresh air circulation of air in ovens by tunning of burners to reduced fresh air consumption
and provided thermal insulation to the hot lines of the oven which has resulted in saving in energy as well as reduced
Piped Natural Gas (PNG) consumption. Stopped the operation of spray nozzle pumps of Air Handling Units during
the monsoon and winter which has resulted in saving in energy.


		

2.

Energy monitoring system:
•	Maneja location: Installation of Smart energy monitoring system - total 7 nos. of High Voltage/Low Voltage substations
and 53 energy meters are connected. Energy consumption pattern monitored, and initiatives taken to reduce energy
consumption per unit of production.

The steps taken by the Company for utilizing alternate sources of energy:
•	Achieved 100% fossil-free electricity in its own operations as part of Sustainability 2030 target of becoming carbon-neutral
in own operations.
•	To achieving fossil free electricity various steps were taken during the year such as installing solar roof panels, switching
electricity contracts to green tariffs, buying International Renewable Energy Certificates (IRECs), and signing Power
Purchase Agreements (PPA).
•

Maneja and Halol transitioned to low carbon fuel PNG (Piped Natural Gas) from HSD (High Speed Diesel).

•	Increased the capacity of solar installation in Maneja factory from 292 kW to 938 kW which will be commissioned in the
fiscal year 2023-24.
•	Biofuels in Mysuru - Use of waste dust from process and paddy husks in boilers.

182

Corporate Overview

3.

Statutory Reports

Integrated Report

Financial Statements

The Capital Investment on energy conservation equipment’s:
14 Projects – CAPEX – C 1,17,21,581

B. Technology Absorption:
1.

Technologies imported during the last three years:
If not fully absorbed areas
where this has not taken
place, reasons thereof

Year of Import

Whether the technology
has been fully absorbed

New UHVDC transformer manufacturing technology

2021-22

Yes

Transformer digitalization with lab testing transformer

2021-22

Yes

Dynamic Short Circuit test on 400 kV, 110 MVA Station
transformer at utility lab

2021-22

Yes

Seismic, 3-D Dielectric and Electromagnetic studies for
transformers

2021-22

No

Application area needs
continuous update

Aluminum Wound Excitation Transformer - 6.8 MVA 22/0.76

2021-22

Yes

Not Applicable

Single Phase Aluminum Wound Transformer - 3.5/4 MVA 33/27.5

2021-22

Yes

Gas Insulated Switchgear (GIS) – 145 kV (ELK04) bay and module
production

2021-22

Yes

Dead Tank Breakers (DTB) - 72.5 kV and 145 kV

2021-22

Yes

Plug And Switch System (PASS) switchgear 145 kV

2021-22

Yes

Reliability centered maintenance Solutions (RelCare)

2021-22

Yes

Prefabricated GIS Substation as an alternative to RCC Buildings

2021-22

Yes

Base Solutions for Solar PV Skid

2021-22

Yes

Building Information Modelling (BIM) and 3D Design for Substation
Project Lifecycle

2021-22

Yes

New bistable relay for PT selection under COMBIFLEX relay
portfolio

2021-22

Yes

Automation system:
-	Electrical Network Control Center SCADA (Supervisory
Control and Data Accusation)
Remote Terminal Units (RTU) for distribution automation
Motor Protection system
Digital process bus based busbar protection

2021-22

No

Motor protection and busbar
protection areas are being
updated continuously

Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) and Field Service
Management (FSM)

2021-22

Yes

Not Applicable

400kV Oil filled Cable box in Tap-less GSU (Generator Step up
Transformer) 400kV 306MVA bank for Hydroelectric project in the
state of J&K. Dynamic Short Circuit Test successfully done.

2022-23

Yes

Fully digital power transformer (63 MVA 220kV) equipped with
e-Devices, ODGA (CoreSense), CT4 (TXpert hub)

2022-23

Yes

Traction Transformer design for Vande Bharat Train operated by
Indian Railways.

2022-23

Yes

Largest Solar Transformer engineering solution of 315MVA 400kV
3-phase transformer

2022-23

Yes

Rectifier duty Transformer (24 pulse) for industrial and metro
applications

2022-23

Yes

Hybrid GIS Pole (145 kV) assembly engineering and cable
configuration

2022-23

Yes

Fabricated Local Control Cubicle for Dead Tank Breakers (DTB)

2022-23

Yes

Hybrid GIS - 170kV

2022-23

Yes

Localization and qualification of assembly of HV Switchgear: 63
kA Interrupter; Spring Operated drive (1250J) for 245 kV DTB
and Hybrids; Spring Operated drive (2500J) for 420 kV LTB; DTB
poles for 420/362 kV, 550 kV with and without PIR; Hybrid GIS
pole for 72.5-123-145 and 245 kV; Hybrid GIS pole for Wind
Tower Applications for Wind

2022-23

Yes

Vertical Break Disconnectors 145-170 kV

2022-23

Yes

Details of Technology Imported

Not Applicable

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

183

Whether the technology
has been fully absorbed

Manufacturing/Assembly and Testing of HVDC Light, Classic and
STATCOM Valves; HVDC Control and Protection

2022-23

Yes

Detailed reliability assessment (RelScan) for reliability-centered
maintenance (RCM) of power assets and systems.

2022-23

Yes

Automation products: Development of relays with alternate
mounting & connection

2022-23

Yes

Automation system technologies with:
Remedial Action Schemes
Centralized fault locator for Railways
New SCADA platform adoption for Industrial application

2022-23

No*

In process and planned
as multi-year development
beyond FY 2023-24

Digital busbar for large system application

2022-23

Yes

Not Applicable

Lumada Asset Performance Management (Lumada APM)

2022-23

Yes

Vegetation Manager

2022-23

No

Application area, being
updated continuously

Energy Trading & Risk Management (ETRM)

2022-23

No

Application area, being
updated continuously

Network Manager SCADA, SCADA/EMS

2022-23

Yes

Not Applicable

Variable Shunt Reactors (VSR) at 245kV and 420kV voltage level.

2023-24

No

Absorption in process along
with manufacturing and
competency development

Rolling stock traction transformer for Metro (Chennai Metro,
DMRC RS-17 and Train-18 Vande Bharat).

2023-24

Yes

Not Applicable

High power transformer LV winding design improvement with
dynamic short-circuit testing

2023-24

Yes

High Voltage Switchgear
-	Assembly of 420 kV GIS Disconnector and Earthing Switch
drive
Assembly of 420 kV GIS Fast Acting Earthing Switch Drive.
Circuit Breaker (550 kV) Poles assembly
New DTB 245 kV

2023-24

Yes

Not Applicable

High Voltage Switchgear
New Hybrid GIS (PASS) 245 kV
Dead tank current Transformer for Hydro-Quebec - 800 kV
-	Capacitive voltage transformer and Coupling capacitor for
HVDC application
-	Dead Tank Breaker 245 kV 80 kA Interrupter & Circuit
Breaker
Withdrawable Switchgear Module COMPASS
Vertical break disconnector – 550 kV, 63 kA

2023-24

No*

In process and planned
as multi-year development
beyond FY 2023-24

-	Latest (Voltage Sourced Converter) HVDC (HVDC Light,
version G5) valve technology
-	Latest HVDC control and Protection (MACH 3) for VSC
HVDC Station

2023-24

Yes

Not Applicable

-

SVC Light Solutions for Grid Stability applications

2023-24

No*

In process and planned
as multi-year development
beyond FY 2023-24

Automation and Communication Technologies: MicroSCADA
Software, Remote Terminal Unit - RTU500 series, Smart Grid
Communication Technology - FOX615

2023-24

Yes

Not Applicable

Process interface unit SAM600 for Digital substations

2023-24

No*

In process and planned
as multi-year development
beyond FY 2023-24

* These imported technologies are not fully absorbed due to multi-year programs.

184

If not fully absorbed areas
where this has not taken
place, reasons thereof

Year of Import

Details of Technology Imported

Not Applicable

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

2.	Efforts made towards technology absorption (in manufacturing, engineering, products, systems,
solutions, services) during financial year 2023-24 (i.e. April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024):
Technology absorption during FY 2023-24

Benefits derived as a result of the technology absorption

Successfully developed Scott-connected Traction supply Power
Transformer at 132kV level bearing 100MVA power and carried out all
Type tests and Special Dynamic Short Circuit Test for supply to Indian
Railways. This happens to be the first Scott-connected transformer in
Hitachi Energy Group

1st in India to develop and qualify to supply 132kV Scott-connected
transformers complying with RDSO (Indian Railways) specifications.
Unique design Solution for 3-phase to 2-phase 25kV Traction supply
power transformers. Only two manufacturers in India have completed
this requirement.

Successfully developed V-connected Traction Power Transformer at
132kV level bearing 63MVA power and carried out all Type tests and
Special Dynamic Short Circuit Test for supply to Indian Railways.

1st in India to develop and qualify to supply V-connected traction
supply power transformers complying with RDSO (Indian Railways)
specifications. Only two manufacturers in India have completed this
requirement.

Successfully developed prototype of 500MVA 400kV Auto transformer
complying with CEA new mandatory specification and Dynamic Short
Circuit test for supply to POWERGRID

Approved to quote one of the most popular transformer requirements
in Indian transmission segment. Only a few manufacturers in India have
completed this requirement.

Successfully developed prototype of 315MVA 400kV Twin LV Solar
application Power Transformer complying with CEA new mandatory
specification and Dynamic Short Circuit test for supply to NTPC.

1st in India to conduct Dynamic Short Circuit test on highest rated Solar
application power transformer. This paves the way to quote and secure
more solar application transformers for growing renewable market
need.

Successfully developed 6MVA, 20/0.62kV, Dry type transformer design
solution and validated with Short Circuit test.

Successful Short circuit test with highest ever current from HE Savli
factory opens door to larger size of Dry type transformers for special
applications.

Successfully developed 2850 kVA, 33/0.585-0.585 kV, 24Pulse Dry
type transformer with lowest ever coil height and with in-built TVP
solution.

Support to serve the new market segment of Metro application with
safer and more reliable technology.

Successfully developed 2500 kVA, 11/1.905-1.905 kV, 24Pulse Dry
transformer.

Supports Hitachi Energy India’s capability to extend scope of 24 pulse
transformers.

Successfully developed 3150 kVA, 33 / 0.415 kV Dry transformer with
very low inrush current. This is equipped with Exotherm, VRT 200.

Supports special applications used by major customers like Microsoft
and other data center owners.

1250 kVA, 11/ 0.433 kV Dry type transformer successfully short circuit
tested with plug in bushings

Supports opening market for tunnels segment.

400VA, 0.48 / 0.415 kV, Dry type transformer, first time top yoke
assembled at site to meet stringent requirements on weight during
shipment.

Provides opportunity to explore new possibilities for remote sites.

Introduced 420 kV, 63 kA SF6 Circuit Breaker

Cost effectiveness

Metal Enclosed Capacitor Bank E series capacitor panel (Aluminum
enclosure) 15.5 kV and 30 kV with multiple variants from 3000 to
15000 kVAR developed in India factory for Tragedel Mali project

Increase in product range and increase in market.

Special type test for required for EIL Temperature rise test to simulate
actual losses or each component in 6.6kV 2000kVAR Capacitors

wider market reach to meet oil and gas industry.

Developed fire protection design for automatic switched capacitor
panel 11kV 7000kVAR for automobile Industry- New features
(additional safety) to meet stringent safety requirement of Maruti Suzuki

This will add value to existing product to increase revenue.

Harmonic filters C type design at 220kV and 132 kV to meet
transmission utility of UAE.

Increase market and qualification in Transco.

Harmonic filters, High pass and Band pass filter along with switched
solution with PLC SCADA interface for at 33kV to meet harmonic
mitigation in solar wind , renewable market

Increase in product features and increase in market share in renewable
sector.

Assembly of 420 kV GIS Disconnector and Earthing Switch drive

Cost effectiveness

Assembly of 420 kV GIS Fast Acting Earthing Switch Drive.
Type Testing of the 420 kV GIS

Qualify for the Export Projects

-	
Production line setup for FSA drives for 145kV MEB0 SPO
application and 245kV MEB4 / CSB4 application.

Make In India, Cost benefits, more competitiveness.

-	
Dead Tank Breaker MEB4 245kV Circuit Breaker and Hybrid
Switchgear MEB4 Circuit Breakers and Disconnector modules.
Production set up and qualification for vertical break disconnectors
72-123 kV

Export markets

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

185

3.

Technology absorption during FY 2023-24

Benefits derived as a result of the technology absorption

-	
VSC (Voltage Sourced Converter) HVDC station technology
Engineering and competency development

Contributing towards
-

Make in India

-	Latest VSC HVDC (HVDC Light, version G5 ) valve technology(type
testing completed)

-

Cost competitiveness

-	
Latest HVDC control and Protection (MACH 3) for VSC HVDC
Station

-

Local vendor development

-

Employment opportunities

STATCOM solutions offering for Transmission Grid Stability

Secured new order from Sterlite Power Transmission

Automation and Communication Technologies

Various customer engagements were done during 2023-24 towards
positioning these solutions to different customers. Further for few of the
cases budgetary proposals are also submitted and under discussions.

-

MicroSCADA Software

-

Remote Terminal Unit - RTU500 series

-

Process interface unit - SAM600 for Digital substations

-

Smart Grid Communication Technology - FOX615

Order for Green field and Brownfield project for
-	MicroSCADA under substation automation systems application for
Transmission and Renewable segments
-

RTU500 for Distribution Applications

-

SAM600 for various augmentation jobs for installed bases

-

FOX615 for mission critical communication system in T&D space

The expenditure incurred on Research and Development:

	Considering the nature of research and development, complexity, competency required, time frame, amount and also to optimize
overall cost, all major R&D efforts are pooled centrally at the Group level. The expenditure has been mainly in the nature of
payment of license fee for use of technology know-how reported as royalty and technology fees under other expenses. Certain
development activities carried out by the Company have been billed to the Group central technology center. Local R&D activities
undertaken by the Company were mainly in localizing the products, adoption of global products to local environment, carrying
out cost saving actions and other improvements. During the year under review, the Company has paid C 90.50 Crores as royalty
and technology fees to Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd. (CHPGS) and C 99.65 Crores to Hitachi Energy Ltd., Switzerland (CHAMH).
Further, during the financial year 2023-24, CHPGS was merged with CHAMH.

C. Foreign exchange earnings and outgo:
Total foreign exchange used and earned
(Amount in K Crores)
2023-24
(April 1, 2023 to
March 31, 2024)

2022-23
(April 1, 2022 to
March 31, 2023)

Foreign Exchange earned

1,282.95

1,188.62

Foreign Exchange used

1,563.71

1,068.14

Particulars

On behalf of Board of Directors
For Hitachi Energy India Limited

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

186

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Hitachi Energy India Limited

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of
Hitachi Energy India Limited (“the Company”), which comprise
the Balance sheet as at March 31 2024, the Statement of Profit
and Loss, including the statement of Other Comprehensive
Income, the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes
in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the financial
statements, including a summary of material accounting policies
and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid financial statements
give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as
amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a
true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company
as at March 31, 2024, its profit including other comprehensive
income, its cash flows and the changes in equity for the year
ended on that date.

Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the financial statements in accordance
with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified under section
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards
are further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the
Audit of the Financial Statements’ section of our report. We are
independent of the Company in accordance with the ‘Code of

Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our
audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act
and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the
Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
audit opinion on the financial statements.

Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. These
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and
we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each
matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the
matter is provided in that context.
We have determined the matters described below to be the
key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We
have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
section of our report, including in relation to these matters.
Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures
designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit
procedures, including the procedures performed to address the
matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the
accompanying financial statements.

Key audit matters

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Revenue recognition for long term projects and contract estimates
(as described in Note 2.3.1(d), 2.6, 15, 23 and Note 38 of the accompanying financial statements)
A significant portion of the Company’s business comprises of long-term fixed
price projects. Revenue from these contracts is recognized in accordance with
the principles laid down in Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers
and as detailed in “material accounting policies” of the financial statements.
In accordance with Ind AS 115, the Company classifies its various contracts
with customers and determines whether revenue should be recognized at
“point in time” or “over the time” basis.
There are various areas involving complexities, judgements and estimates
involved in accounting for revenue recognized on “over the time” basis, including:
• Estimation of total contract costs at inception and remaining costs to
completion, which is a critical factor in measuring progress of a contract
and amounts of revenue to be recognized; and
• Assessment of various risks emanating from operational delays, contract
terms, changes in estimations and scope, accounting for onerous
obligations, technical, legal, external environment etc. This requires
the Company to estimate various costs to capture such risks, including
liquidated damages and warranties.
In view of the above and because the Company and its external stakeholders
focus on revenue as a key performance indicator, we determined this area to
be an area involving significant risk, an area of audit focus, and accordingly a
key audit matter.

In view of the significance of the matter we applied the following audit
procedures in this area, among others to obtain sufficient appropriate
audit evidence:

• We assessed the revenue recognition accounting policies by
comparing with applicable accounting standards.

• We tested key controls (both design and operating effectiveness)
with respect to revenue recognition and related cost estimations.
• We carried out analytical procedures on revenue recognized
during the year ended to identify unusual variances.
• We performed substantive testing by selecting samples of
revenue transactions, recorded during the year ended by testing
the underlying documents using statistical sampling.
• We evaluated management’s estimates (contract costs
and risk provisions) by performing analytical procedures on
such estimates.
• We performed a retrospective review for contracts completed
during the current year by comparing the final outcome of the
contracts with previous estimates made for those contracts to
assess the reliability of the management’s estimation process.
• We performed tests for completeness and appropriateness of
actual cost booked in the correct period, by testing the underlying
documents for samples selected using statistical sampling.
• We assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

187

Trade receivables (including unbilled revenue) and contract assets
(as described in Note 2.3.1(i), 12, 15 and 38 of the accompanying financial statements)
Trade receivables including unbilled revenue and retention money with
customers and contract assets forms a significant part of the financial
statements. Customer contracts typically involve time consuming and complex
conditions around closure of contracts, including technical acceptances. This
generally leads to longer and significant time for realization of receivables. As
a result of the above, management’s assessment of recoverability of trade
receivables (including unbilled revenue) and contract assets, involves critical
evaluation of all factors impacting recoverability, including impact of external
environment, capability of customers to pay, historical payment records,
evaluation of litigations, etc.

In view of the significance of the matter we applied the following
audit procedures in this area, among others to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence:

Management makes an impairment allowance for trade receivables (including
unbilled revenue) and contract assets on the basis of it’s assessment of
recoverability of specific customers and on the basis of expected credit loss
model for the remaining customers in accordance with Ind AS 109, Financial
Instruments. For the purposes of impairment assessment, significant
judgements and assumptions are made, including assessing credit risk,
timing and amount of realization, etc.

• We obtained and tested the ageing of aforesaid receivables /
assets on a sample basis.

In view of above, we determined this area to be an area of audit focus, and
accordingly a key audit matter.

• We obtained an understanding of the processes implemented by
management over the recognition and the recoverability of the
trade receivables (including unbilled revenue) and contract assets.
• We tested key controls (both design and operating effectiveness)
over the recognition and the recoverability of the trade receivables
(including unbilled revenue) and contract assets.

• We performed test of details and tested relevant contracts and
documents for material trade receivable balances (including
unbilled revenue) and amounts included in contract assets.
• We evaluated the model adopted by management to estimate the
expected credit loss. We enquired the management in respect
of the various judgements and estimates made relating to
impairment provision against trade receivable (including unbilled
revenue) and contract assets.
• We obtained and discussed management assessment of
impairment for specific customer balances and understood
reasons for the determination.
• We have circulated direct confirmations on a sample basis using
statistical sampling. In case of non- receipt of such confirmations,
alternate test procedures such as testing subsequent receipts
and underlying documents have been performed.
• We assessed the disclosures made in the financial
statements.

Information Other than the Financial Statements
and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other
information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Annual report, but does not include the financial
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Annual report is
expected to be made available to us after the date of this report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the
other information and we do not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so,
consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Annual report, if we conclude that there is a
material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate
the matter to those charged with governance and take necessary
actions as applicable under the applicable laws and regulations.

Responsibilities of Management for the Financial
Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters
stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation
of these financial statements that give a true and fair view of
the financial position, financial performance including other
comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity of

188

the Company in accordance with the accounting principles
generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting
Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read
with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015,
as amended. This responsibility also includes maintenance of
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions
of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection
and application of appropriate accounting policies; making
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate
internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible
for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless
management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the
Company’s financial reporting process.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that
an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than
for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion,
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we
are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether
the Company has adequate internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements in place and the operating
effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of
the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt
on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are
required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may
cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable,
related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with
governance, we determine those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the financial statements for the financial
year ended March 31, 2024 and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless
law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a
matter should not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected
to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory
Requirements
1.	As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order,
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of
India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act,
we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the matters
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.	As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the
extent applicable, that:
(a)	We have sought and obtained all the information and
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit;
(b)	In our opinion, proper books of account as required
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it
appears from our examination of those books except,
as detailed in note 44 of the financial statements, for
the matters stated in the paragraph (h) and (i(vi)) below
on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit
and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended;
(c)	The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss
including the Statement of Other Comprehensive
Income, the Cash Flow Statement and Statement of
Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in
agreement with the books of account;
(d)	In our opinion, the aforesaid financial statements
comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;

• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the
financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether
the financial statements represent the underlying transactions
and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

(e)	On the basis of the written representations received
from the directors as on March 31, 2024 taken on
record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors is
disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being appointed
as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act;

We communicate with those charged with governance regarding,
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant
deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

(f)	With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial
controls with reference to these financial statements
and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer
to our separate Report in “Annexure 2” to this report;

We also provide those charged with governance with a statement
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them
all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be

(g)	In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year
ended March 31, 2024 has been paid / provided by the
Company to its directors in accordance with the provisions
of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act;

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

189

(h)	
The observation relating to the maintenance of
accounts and other matters connected therewith
are as stated in the paragraph (b) above on reporting
under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph (i(vi)) below on
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit
and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended.

in other persons or entities identified in any
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the
Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or
provide any guarantee, security or the like
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
			

(i)	With respect to the other matters to be included in
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as
amended in our opinion and to the best of our information
and according to the explanations given to us:
		

		

i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of
pending litigations on its financial position in
its financial statements – Refer Note 35 to the
accompanying financial statements;
ii.	The Company has made provision, as required
under the applicable law or accounting standards,
for material foreseeable losses, if any, on longterm contracts including derivative contracts
– Refer Notes 18 and 22 to the accompanying
financial statements;

		

iii.	There has been no delay in transferring amounts,
required to be transferred, to the Investor
Education and Protection Fund by the Company

		

iv.

			

190

a) 	The management has represented that,
to the best of its knowledge and belief,
and as disclosed in the note 43 to the
accompanying financial statements, no
funds have been advanced or loaned or
invested (either from borrowed funds or
share premium or any other sources or kind
of funds) by the Company to or in any other
persons or entities, including foreign entities
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding,
whether recorded in writing or otherwise,
that the Intermediary shall, whether,
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
persons or entities identified in any manner
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of
the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
b)	The management has represented that,
to the best of its knowledge and belief,
and as disclosed in the note 43 to the
accompanying financial statements, no
funds have been received by the Company
from any persons or entities, including
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the
understanding, whether recorded in writing
or otherwise, that the Company shall,
whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest

		

c)	Based on such audit procedures performed
that have been considered reasonable and
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing
has come to our notice that has caused
us to believe that the representations
under sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any
material misstatement.

v.	The final dividend paid by the Company during
the year in respect of the same declared for the
previous year is in accordance with section 123
of the Act to the extent it applies to payment
of dividend.

			
As stated in note 16 to the accompanying
financial statements, the Board of Directors
of the Company have proposed final dividend
for the year which is subject to the approval of
the members at the ensuing Annual General
Meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance
with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies
to declaration of dividend.
		

vi.	Based on our examination which included test
checks, the Company has used an accounting
software for maintaining its books of account
which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit
log) facility and the same has operated throughout
the year for all relevant transactions recorded in
the software except that, audit trail feature is not
enabled for direct changes to data when using
certain access rights, as described in note 44
to the financial statements. Further, during the
course of our audit we did not come across any
instance of audit trail feature being tampered with
in respect of the aforesaid accounting software
where audit trail has been enabled.

For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership Number: 061207
UDIN: 24061207BKBJWO2660
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Annexure 1 to the Independent
Auditor’s Report
Annexure 1 referred to in clause 1 of paragraph on the ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory
Requirements’ of our report of even date
Re: Hitachi Energy India Limited (‘the Company’)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Company and the books of account and
records examined by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that:
(i)

(a)

		

(A)	The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of
property, plant and equipment.
(B)

The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangibles assets.

(b)	Property, plant and equipment have been physically verified by the management during the year and no material
discrepancies were identified on such verification.
(c)	The title deeds of immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements
are duly executed in favour of the lessee and as tabulated below) as disclosed in note 3 to the accompanying financial
statements included in property, plant and equipment are held in the name of the Company. Certain immovable properties
acquired as per the scheme of arrangement approved by the National Company Law Tribunal vide its order dated November
27, 2019 included in property, plant and equipment and as tabulated below are not held in the name of the Company.
Gross carrying
value

Held in
name of

Freehold/ Leasehold land
C 174.81 Crores
and buildings attached to it

ABB India
Limited

Description of Property

Whether promoter,
Reason for not being held in the name
director or their
Period held
of Company
relative or employee

No

Since 2019 We understand from the management
that registration is in process.

(d)	The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right of use assets) or intangible assets during
the year ended March 31, 2024.
(e)	As disclosed in note 43 to the accompanying financial statements, there are no proceedings initiated or are pending against
the Company for holding any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules
made thereunder.
(ii)

(a) 	The inventory has been physically verified by the management during the year except for inventories lying with third parties
and goods in transit. In our opinion, the frequency of verification by the management is reasonable and the coverage and
procedure for such verification is appropriate. Inventories lying with third parties have been substantially confirmed by them
as at March 31, 2024 and discrepancies of 10% or more in aggregate for each class of inventory were not noticed.
(b) 	The Company has not been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of Rupees five crores in aggregate from banks
or financial institutions during any point of time of the year on the basis of security of current assets. Accordingly, the
requirement to report on clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.

(iii)

(a)

During the year the Company has provided interest free loans to other parties (i.e. employees) as summarized below:
Particulars

Loans

Aggregate amount granted/ provided during the year
- Others (loans to employees)

C 6.19 Crores

Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect of above cases
- Others (loans to employees)

C 6.87 Crores

		Other than the above, the Company has not provided loans, advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantee and provided
security to the companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties.
(b)	The terms and conditions of the grant of all loans to employees during the year are, in our opinion, prima facie, not prejudicial
to the Company’s interest. Other than above, the Company has not made investments, provided guarantees, provided
security and granted advances in the nature of loans to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties.
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

191

(c)	The Company has granted loans during the year to the employees where the schedule of repayment of principal has been
stipulated and the repayment or receipts are regular.
(d)	There are no amounts of loans or advances in nature of loans granted to companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or
any other parties which are overdue for more than ninety days.
(e)	There were no loans or advances in nature of loans granted to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any
other parties which was fallen due during the year, that have been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to settle
the overdues of existing loans given to the same parties.
(f)	The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans, either repayable on demand or without
specifying any terms or period of repayment to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties.
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company and hence not
commented upon.
(iv)	There are no loans, investments, guarantees, and securities given in respect of which provisions of section 185 and 186 of the
Act are applicable and accordingly the requirement to report on clause 3(iv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company and
hence not commented upon.
(v)	The Company has neither accepted any deposits from the public nor accepted any amounts which are deemed to be deposits
within the meaning of sections 73 to 76 of the Act and the rules made thereunder, to the extent applicable. Accordingly, the
requirement to report on clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
(vi)	We have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules made by the Central
Government for the maintenance of cost records under section 148(1) of the Act related to the products manufactured by the
Company, and are of the opinion that prima facie, the specified accounts and records have been made and maintained. We
have not, however, made a detailed examination of the same.
(vii) (a)	Undisputed statutory dues including goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax,
sales-tax, service tax, duty of custom, duty of excise, value added tax, cess and other statutory dues have generally been
regularly deposited with the appropriate authorities. According to the information and explanations given to us and based
on audit procedures performed by us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of these statutory dues were outstanding,
at the year end, for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
(b)	The dues of goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, service tax, duty
of custom, duty of excise, value added tax, cess, and other statutory dues which have not been deposited on account of
any dispute, are as follows:
Name of the statute

Nature of the dues

Amount (E)

Period to which
Forum where the
the amount relates dispute is pending

Central Goods and
Goods & Service Tax-demand
Services Tax Act, 2017 for differential amount

C 17.88 crore Oct 2021 to
Jun 2022

Additional Commissioner
of Central Tax (Appeals)

Income Tax Act,
1961

C 8.62 crore FY 2020-21 and
FY 2021-22

Assessing officer

Assessment order
u/s 143(3)

Remarks,
if any

(viii)	As disclosed in note 43 to the accompanying financial statements, the Company has not surrendered or disclosed any transaction,
previously unrecorded in the books of account, in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the
year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(viii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(ix)

(a) 	The Company has not defaulted in repayment of loans or other borrowings or in the payment of interest thereon to
any lender.
(b) 	As disclosed in note 43 to the accompanying financial statements, the Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by
any bank or financial institution or government or any government authority.
(c) 	The Company did not have any term loans outstanding during the year hence, the requirement to report on clause (ix)(c)
of the Order is not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
(d)	On an overall examination of the financial statements of the Company, no funds raised on short-term basis have been used
for long-term purposes by the Company.
(e)	The Company does not have any subsidiary, associate or joint venture. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause
3(ix)(e) of the Order is not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
(f)	The Company does not have any subsidiary, associate or joint venture. Accordingly, the requirement to report on Clause
3(ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.

(x)

192

(a)	The Company has not raised any money during the year by way of initial public offer / further public offer (including debt
instruments) hence, the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company and hence
not commented upon.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

(b)	The Company has not made any preferential allotment
or private placement of shares /fully or partially or
optionally convertible debentures during the year
under audit and hence, the requirement to report
on clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the
Company and hence not commented upon.
(xi)

(a)	No fraud by the Company or no material fraud on
the Company has been noticed or reported during
the year.
(b) 	During the year, no report under sub-section (12) of
section 143 of the Act has been filed by auditors as
applicable in Form ADT – 4 as prescribed under Rule
13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with
the Central Government.
(c)	We have taken into consideration the whistle blower
complaints received by the Company during the year
while determining the nature, timing and extent of
audit procedures.

(xii)	The Company is not a Nidhi Company as per the provisions
of the Act. Therefore, the requirement to report on clause
3(xii)(a) to 3(xii)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the
Company and hence not commented upon.
(xiii)	Transactions with the related parties are in compliance
with sections 177 and 188 of the Act where applicable
and the details have been disclosed in the notes to the
financial statements, as required by the applicable
accounting standards.
(xiv) (a) 	
The Company has an internal audit system
commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
(b)	The internal audit reports of the Company issued till
the date of the audit report, for the period under audit
have been considered by us.
(xv)	
T he Company has not entered into any non-cash
transactions with its directors or persons connected
with the directors as referred to in section 192 of the Act
and hence requirement to report on clause 3(xv) of the
Order is not applicable to the Company and hence not
commented upon.
(xvi) (a) 	The provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank
of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are not applicable to
the Company. Accordingly, the requirement to report
on clause (xvi)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the
Company and hence not commented upon.
(b)	The Company is not engaged in any Non-Banking
Financial or Housing Finance activities. Accordingly,
the requirement to report on clause (xvi)(b) of the
Order is not applicable to the Company and hence
not commented upon.
(c)	The Company is not a Core Investment Company as
defined in the regulations made by Reserve Bank of
India. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause
3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company
and hence not commented upon.

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

(d)	There is no Core Investment Company as a part of
the Group, hence, the requirement to report on clause
3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the Company
and hence not commented upon.
(xvii)	
The Company has not incurred cash losses in the
current financial year and in the immediately preceding
financial year.
(xviii)	There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors
during the year and accordingly requirement to report on
Clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company
and hence not commented upon.
(xix)	On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note 41 to the
accompanying financial statements, ageing and expected
dates of realization of financial assets and payment of
financial liabilities, other information accompanying the
financial statements, our knowledge of the Board of
Directors and management plans and based on our
examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions,
nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to
believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the date of
the audit report that Company is not capable of meeting its
liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when
they fall due within a period of one year from the balance
sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance
as to the future viability of the Company. We further state
that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of
the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one
year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the
Company as and when they fall due.
(xx) (a)	In respect of other than ongoing projects, there are no
unspent amounts that are required to be transferred
to a fund specified in Schedule VII of the Act, in
compliance with second proviso to sub section 5 of
section 135 of the Act. This matter has been disclosed
in note 40 to the accompanying financial statements.
(b)	All amounts that are unspent under section (5) of
section 135 of the Act, pursuant to any ongoing project,
has been transferred to special account in compliance
of with provisions of sub section (6) of section 135 of
the said Act. This matter has been disclosed in note
40 to the accompanying financial statements.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership Number: 061207
UDIN: 24061207BKBJWO2660
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

193

Annexure 2 to the Independent
Auditor’s Report
Annexure 2 to the Independent Auditor’s report of
even date on the financial statements of Hitachi
Energy India Limited
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference
to financial statements of Hitachi Energy India Limited (“the
Company”) as of March 31, 2024 in conjunction with our audit
of the financial statements of the Company for the year ended
on that date.

Management’s Responsibility for Internal
Financial Controls
The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal
control over financial reporting criteria established by the
Company considering the essential components of internal
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial
Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient
conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness
of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable
financial information, as required under the Act.

Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's
internal financial controls with reference to these financial
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in
accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on
Auditing, as specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to the
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both
issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to
these financial statements was established and maintained and
if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence
about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference
to these financial statements and their operating effectiveness.

194

Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements included obtaining an understanding of internal
financial controls with reference to these financial statements,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment
of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements,
whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these
financial statements.

Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with
Reference to these Financial Statements
A company's internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company's internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures
of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorisations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls
with Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls
with reference to financial statements, including the possibility
of collusion or improper management override of controls,
material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal
financial controls with reference to financial statements to future
periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control
with reference to financial statements may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Opinion

For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP

In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects,
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements and such internal financial controls with reference
to financial statements were operating effectively as at March
31, 2024, based on the internal control over financial reporting
criteria established by the Company considering the essential
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note
issued by the ICAI.

Chartered Accountants

Financial Statements

ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership Number: 061207
UDIN: 24061207BKBJWO2660
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

195

Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2024

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Notes

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

3
3
4
5
5

596.07
66.48
62.57
31.80
0.60

616.75
63.70
48.67
31.80
1.08

6
7
8
9
10

3.15
13.75
33.08
53.70
17.42
878.62

3.49
13.59
33.80
31.87
1.90
846.65

11

887.94

817.90

12
13
14
6
7
15

Total assets
Equity and liabilities
Equity
Equity share capital
Other equity

1,521.71
128.04
0.16
3.72
50.65
1,236.53
3,828.75
4,707.37

1,527.77
163.19
0.10
2.19
34.47
526.24
3,071.86
3,918.51

16
17

8.48
1,351.39
1,359.87

8.48
1,206.83
1,215.31

Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities

36(b)
18

52.07
4.28
56.35

46.62
2.20
48.82

19
36(b)

150.00
11.61

275.00
12.69

20
20
18
21
22

50.33
1,759.39
130.06
941.16
221.90
26.70
3,291.15
4,707.37

76.22
1,438.40
123.08
533.79
195.20
2,654.38
3,918.51

Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Capital work-in-progress
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Financial assets
Loans
Other financial assets
Non-current tax assets (net)
Deferred tax assets (net)
Other non-current assets
Current assets
Inventories
Financial assets
Trade receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalent
Loans
Other financial assets
Other current assets

Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
Lease liabilities
Trade payables
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
Other financial liabilities
Other current liabilities
Provisions
Liabilities for current tax (net)
Total equity and liabilities
Summary of material accounting policies
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements

2

As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 101049W/E300004

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Hitachi Energy India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman & Director
DIN: 08596097

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

196

Bengaluru
May 21, 2024

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director & CEO
DIN: 07032076

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Statement of profit and loss
for the year ended March 31, 2024

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Notes

For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Income
Revenue from operations

23

5,237.49

Other income

24

9.29

15.14

5,246.78

4,483.65

3,108.60

2,721.24

Total income

4,468.51

Expenses
Cost of raw materials, components consumed and project bought outs

25

Purchase of stock-in-trade
(Increase)/ decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade

26

Subcontracting charges

87.59

85.61

22.91

(95.89)

183.42

150.58

Employee benefits expense

27

490.15

417.29

Depreciation and amortisation expense

28

90.01

80.16

Finance costs

29

46.55

40.09

Other expenses

30

995.85

953.75

Total expenses

5,025.08

4,352.83

Profit before tax

221.70

130.82

Tax expense:
Current tax

9

77.41

35.94

Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods

9

0.72

(1.39)

Deferred tax charge/ (credit)

9

(20.21)

2.37

Total tax expense

57.92

36.92

Profit for the year

163.78

93.90

Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Re-measurement gains/ (losses) on defined benefit plan

32

(6.43)

2.33

Income tax effect

9

1.62

(0.59)

Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax

(4.81)

1.74

Total comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax

158.97

95.64

38.64

22.16

31

Earnings per equity share of face value of E 2 each
Basic and diluted (C)
Summary of material accounting policies

2

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements		
As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 101049W/E300004

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Hitachi Energy India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman & Director
DIN: 08596097

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

Bengaluru
May 21, 2024

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director & CEO
DIN: 07032076

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

197

Statement of cash flows
for the year ended March 31, 2024

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
A.

B.

C.

Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Liabilities/ provisions no longer required written back
Unrealised exchange (gains)/ loss (net)
Mark to market change in forward, commodity contracts and embedded derivative contracts
(Gain)/Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
Provision for doubtful debts and advances/ bad debts/ advances written off
Interest income
Finance costs
Operating profit before working capital changes
Movement in working capital
Increase/ (decrease) in trade payables
Increase/ (decrease) in other financial liabilities
Increase/ (decrease) in other liabilities and provisions
(Increase)/ decrease in trade receivables
(Increase)/ decrease in inventories
(Increase)/ decrease in other financial assets
(Increase)/ decrease in loans and other assets
Cash generated from operations
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
Net cash flow from/ (used in) operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment including capital advances (net of reimbursement of capital
expenditure)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of intangible assets
Interest received
Net cash flow (used in)/ from investing activities
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from/ (repayment of) short term borrowings (net)
Finance costs paid
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities
Payment of interest portion of lease liabilities
Dividend paid on equity shares
Net cash flow (used in)/ from financing activities
Net (decrease)/ increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
Components of cash and cash equivalents (refer note 13)

221.70

130.82

90.01
(5.57)
(8.12)
0.55
0.38
7.45
(0.59)
46.55
352.36

80.16
(14.55)
2.85
(0.10)
0.47
14.49
(0.57)
40.09
253.66

306.66
15.77
427.64
0.02
(70.04)
(17.29)
(712.10)
303.02
(50.71)
252.31

(90.57)
6.22
260.43
(125.34)
(110.65)
(7.92)
(113.89)
71.94
(66.57)
5.37

(89.36)

(11.94)

0.42
0.22
(88.72)

0.04
(0.07)
0.20
(11.77)

(125.00)
(40.90)
(14.17)
(4.32)
(14.35)
(198.74)
(35.15)
163.19
128.04
128.04
128.04

150.00
(35.81)
(13.60)
(4.24)
(12.66)
83.69
77.29
85.90
163.19
163.19
163.19

Notes:
i. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year represent cash and cheques on hand/ remittance in transit and cash at bank.
ii. Cash flow statement is made using the indirect method.
iii. Refer note 13 for details pertaining to changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
Summary of material accounting policies		
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements			
As per our report of even date

2

For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 101049W/E300004

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Hitachi Energy India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman & Director
DIN: 08596097

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

198

Bengaluru
May 21, 2024

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director & CEO
DIN: 07032076

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Financial Statements

Statutory Reports

Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended March 31, 2024
a. Equity share capital:
Equity shares of C 2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Number of shares

Amount

42,381,675

8.48

As at April 01, 2022
Changes in equity share capital
As at March 31, 2023

-

-

42,381,675

8.48

-

-

42,381,675

8.48

Changes in equity share capital
As at March 31, 2024

b. Other equity:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Attributable to equity shareholders
Reserves and surplus
Particulars

As at April 01, 2022

Securities
premium

General
reserve

Retained
earnings

Capital
reserve

Amalgamation
adjustment
deficit account

Total equity

9.80

507.10

608.39

0.18

(1.56)

1,123.91

-

-

93.90

-

-

93.90

Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax)

-

-

1.74

-

-

1.74

Dividend for the period ended March 31, 2022
(C 3 per share of face value of C 2 each)

-

-

(12.72)

-

-

(12.72)

9.80

507.10

691.31

0.18

(1.56)

1,206.83

-

-

163.78

-

-

163.78

As at March 31, 2023
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax)

-

-

(4.81)

-

-

(4.81)

Dividend for the year ended March 31, 2023
(C 3.40 per share of face value of C 2 each)

-

-

(14.41)

-

-

(14.41)

9.80

507.10

835.87

0.18

(1.56)

1,351.39

As at March 31, 2024
Summary of material accounting policies

2

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 101049W/E300004

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Hitachi Energy India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman & Director
DIN: 08596097

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

Bengaluru
May 21, 2024

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director & CEO
DIN: 07032076

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

199

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
1

Corporate Information

	Hitachi Energy India Limited (‘the Company’ or 'INHE') is a public limited company domiciled in India and incorporated under
the provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 2013 on February 19, 2019. The registered office is located at Bengaluru. The
Company serves utility and industry customers, with the complete range of engineering, products, solutions and services
in areas of Power technology. The Company has extensive installed base for manufacturing and a countrywide marketing
and service presence. Besides catering to Indian domestic market, the Company is also playing an increasing role in the
global market.
	The equity shares of the Company have been listed and are being traded on BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange
of India Limited (“NSE”).
	The financial statements are approved for issue by the Company's Board of Directors on May 21, 2024.

2

Material accounting policies

	The material accounting policies applied by the Company in the preparation of its Ind AS financial statements are listed below.
Such accounting policies have been applied consistently to all the periods presented in these financial statements, unless
otherwise stated.

2.1

Basis of preparation of financial statements
A

Statement of compliance

		These financial statements of the Company are prepared and presented in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards
("Ind AS") notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended and other relevant
provision of the Act as amended from time to time and presentation requirements of Division II of Schedule III to the
Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS compliant Schedule III), as applicable to the financial statements. The Company has
prepared the financial statements on the basis that it will continue to operate as a going concern.

B

Functional and presentation currency

		The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees crores which is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the Company operated, rounded off to two decimal places, except where otherwise indicated.

C

Basis of measurement

		The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost convention and on accrual basis, except for certain
financial instruments (refer accounting policy regarding financial instruments), which are measured at fair values at the
end of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting policies below.
		Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services as at
the date of respective transactions.

2.2

Use of estimates

	The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with Ind AS requires management to make estimates, judgments and
assumptions. These estimates, judgments and assumptions affect the application of accounting policies and the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements
and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Application of accounting policies that require critical
accounting estimates involving complex and subjective judgments and the use of assumptions in these financial statements
have been disclosed in Note 2.3. Accounting estimates could change from period to period. Actual results could differ from
those estimates. Appropriate changes in estimates are made as management becomes aware of changes in circumstances
surrounding the estimates. Changes in estimates are reflected in the financial statements in the period in which changes are
made and, if material, their effects are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.

200

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

2.3	Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements
	The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised
in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods affected. The Company based its assumptions and estimates
on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future
developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the
Company. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
	Significant judgements and estimates relating to the carrying values of assets and liabilities include, determination of estimated
projected cost and revenue in long term contracts, determination of term of lease contracts, fair value measurement, impairment
of goodwill, provision for employee benefits and other provisions, recoverability of deferred tax assets and commitments
and contingencies.

2.3.1 Estimates and assumptions
a.

Property, plant and equipment

		Property, plant and equipment represent a significant proportion of the asset base of the Company. The charge in
respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life and the
expected residual value at the end of its life. The useful lives and residual values of Company's assets are determined
by management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed periodically, including at each financial year end. The
lives are based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future events, which may impact
their life, such as changes in technology.
b.

Provision for employee benefits

		The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are determined using actuarial
valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual developments in the
future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases and mortality rates. Due to the
complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes
in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. The parameter most subject to change is
the discount rate. In determining the appropriate discount rate for plans operated in India, the management considers
the interest rates of government bonds in currencies consistent with the currencies of the post-employment benefit
obligation. The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality tables. Those mortality tables tend to change only
at interval in response to demographic changes. Future salary increases and gratuity increases are based on expected
future inflation rate and past trends. Further details about gratuity obligations are given in Note 32.

c.

Provision for litigations and contingencies

		The provision for litigations and contingencies are determined based on evaluation made by the management of
the present obligation arising from past events the settlement of which is expected to result in outflow of resources
embodying economic benefits, which involves judgements around estimating the ultimate outcome of such past events
and measurement of the obligation amount. Due to the judgements involved in such estimations the provisions are
sensitive to the actual outcome in future periods.

d.

Project revenue and costs

		The Company uses the percentage-of-completion method in accounting for its fixed-price contracts. Use of the
percentage-of-completion method requires the Company to estimate the efforts or costs expended to date as a
proportion of the total efforts or costs to be expended. Efforts or costs expended have been used to measure progress
towards completion as there is a direct relationship between input and productivity. Provisions for estimated losses, if
any, on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which such losses become probable based on the expected
contract estimates at the reporting date.
		Further, the percentage-of-completion method places considerable importance on accurate estimates to the extent of
progress towards completion and may involve estimates on the scope of deliveries and services required for fulfilling
the contractually defined obligations. These significant estimates include total contract costs, total contract revenues,
contract risks, including technical, political and regulatory risks, and other judgments. This requires the Company to
estimate various costs to capture such risks, including liquidated damages and warranties. The Company re-assesses
these estimates on periodic basis and makes appropriate revisions accordingly.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

201

e.

Provision

		Significant estimates are involved in the determination of provisions related to liquidated damages, onerous contracts
and warranty provision. The Company records a provision for onerous sales contracts when current estimates of total
contract costs exceed expected contract revenue. Warranty provision is determined based on the historical trend of
warranty expense for the same types of goods for which the warranty is currently being determined, after adjusting
for unusual factors related to the goods that were sold or based on specific warranty clause in an agreement. Such
estimates are reviewed annually for any material changes in assumptions and likelihood of occurrence. The provision
for warranty, liquidated damages and onerous contracts is based on the best estimate required to settle the present
obligation at the end of reporting period.
f.

Impairment of non-financial assets

		Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit (CGU) exceeds its recoverable amount,
which is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The fair value less costs of disposal
calculation is based on available data from binding sales transactions, conducted at arm’s length, for similar assets or
observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. The value in use calculation is based on
a Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. The cash ﬂows are derived from the budget and do not include restructuring
activities that the Company is not yet committed to or signiﬁcant future investments that will enhance the asset’s
performance of the CGU being tested. The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the DCF model
as well as the expected future cash-inﬂows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes.
g.	Fair value measurement of ﬁnancial instruments
		When the fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be measured based
on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using appropriate valuation techniques. The inputs for
these valuations are taken from observable sources where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement
is required in establishing fair values. Judgements include considerations of various inputs including liquidity risk, credit
risk, volatility etc. Changes in assumptions/ judgements about these factors could effect the reported fair value of
ﬁnancial instruments.
h.

Taxes

		The Company uses estimates and judgements based on the relevant rulings in the areas of allocation of revenue,
costs, allowances and disallowances which is exercised while determining the provision for income tax. Uncertainties
exist with respect to the interpretation of tax regulations, changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing of future
taxable income. Given the wide range of business relationships differences arising between the actual results and the
assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and
expense already recorded. The Company establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates. The amount of such
provisions is based on various factors, such as experience of previous assessments and interpretations of tax regulations
by the Company.
i.

Impairment allowance for trade receivables

		The Company uses a provision matrix to calculate Expected Credit Losses ('ECL') for trade receivables. The provision
rates are based on days past due for groupings of various customer segments that have similar loss patterns (i.e., by
geography, customer type, rating and coverage by letters of credit and other forms of credit insurance). The provision
matrix is initially based on the Company’s historical observed default rates. At every reporting date, the historical
observed default rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed. The amount of ECLs
is sensitive to changes in circumstances and of forecast economic conditions.
j.

Leases: whether an arrangement contains a lease

		The Company determines the lease term as the agreed tenure of the lease, together with any periods covered by an
option to extend the lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any periods covered by an option to terminate
the lease, if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised. After the commencement date, the Company reassesses the
lease term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances that is within its control and affects its ability to
exercise or not to exercise the option to renew or to terminate (e.g., construction of significant leasehold improvements
or significant customisation to the leased asset).

202

Corporate Overview

2.4

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Current and non-current classification

	The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current/ non-current classification. An asset is
treated as current when it is:
• Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal operating cycle;
• Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
• Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period; or
• Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after
the reporting period.
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non- current as per the Company’s operating cycle and other criteria
set out in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition of
assets for processing and their realization in cash and cash equivalents, the Company has ascertained its operating cycle as
12 months for the purpose of current and non- current classification of assets and liabilities, except for long-term contracts.
The projects business comprises long-term contracts which have an operating cycle exceeding one year. For classification
of current assets and liabilities related to projects business, the Company uses the duration of the individual life cycle of the
contract as its operating cycle.
A liability is current when:
• It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle;
• It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
• It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period; or
• There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period;
The Company classifies all other liabilities as non-current;
Advance tax paid is classified as non-current assets
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities.

2.5

Foreign Currency
Functional currency
The functional currency of the Company is the Indian Rupee.
Transactions and translations

	Initial recognition transactions in foreign currencies are recorded by the Company at their respective functional currency spot
rates at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition.
	Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates of
exchange at the reporting date. The gains or losses resulting from such translations are recognised in the statement of profit
and loss.
	Non-monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign currency and measured at fair value are translated at the
exchange rate prevalent at the date when the fair value was measured. Non-monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities denominated
in a foreign currency and measured at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate prevalent at the date of the transaction.
Transaction gains or losses realized upon settlement of foreign currency transactions are included in determining net profit for
the period in which the transaction is settled. Revenue, expense and cash flow items denominated in foreign currencies are
translated into the relevant functional currencies using the exchange rate in effect on the date of the transaction.

2.6

Revenue Recognition

	Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of the goods or services are transferred to the customer
at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or
services. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the
revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being made. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the
consideration received or receivable, taking into account contractually defined terms of payment and excluding taxes or duties
collected on behalf of the government. The Company has concluded that it is the principal in all of its revenue arrangements
since it is the primary obligor in all the revenue arrangements as it has pricing latitude and is also exposed to inventory and
credit risks.
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

203

	The Company considers whether there are other promises in the contract that are separate performance obligations to which a
portion of the transaction price needs to be allocated if any. In determining the transaction price for the sale of goods, the Company
considers the effects of variable consideration, the existence of significant financing components, noncash consideration, and
consideration payable to the customer (if any).
Revenue are stated exclusive of goods and service tax and net of trade and quantity discount.
	Liquidated damages / penalties are provided for as per the contract terms wherever there is a delayed delivery attributable to
the Company.

Revenue from the sale of goods.
	Revenues are recognised at a point in time when control of the goods is transferred to the buyer, usually on delivery of the
goods or on customer acceptance. Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received
or receivable, net of returns and allowances, trade discounts and volume rebates.

Revenue from execution of contracts for projects and services
	Revenues are recognised on the percentage of completion method, in proportion that the contract costs incurred for work
performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total contract costs. Contract revenue earned in excess of billing
has been reflected under “Other current assets” and billing in excess of contract revenue has been reflected under “Other
current liabilities” in the balance sheet. Full provision is made for any loss in the year in which it is first foreseen.

Revenue from sale of services
	Revenue from services rendered over a period of time, such as annual maintenance contracts, are recognised on straight line
basis over the period of the performance obligation.

Income from development services and other services
	Revenue from the development services is recognised as per the contract terms and when accrued. When the contract
outcome cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that the expenses incurred are eligible to
be recovered.
Commission income
Commission income is recognized as per contract terms and when accrued.

Export benefits
	Export incentives receivable are accrued for, when the right to receive the credit is established and there is no significant
uncertainty regarding the realisability of the incentive.

Other income
Interest income is recognised on time proportion basis.
Fair value gain on financial instruments is recognized using the effective interest method.

2.7

Income tax

	Income tax expense comprises current and deferred income tax. Income tax expense is recognized in net profit in the
statement of profit and loss

2.7.1 Current tax
	Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at
the reporting date in the countries where the Company operates and generates taxable income.
	Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax
regulations are subject to interpretation and considers whether it is probable that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain
tax treatment. The Company shall reflect the effect of uncertainty for each uncertain tax treatment by using either most likely
method or expected value method, depending on which method predicts better resolution of the treatment.
	The Company offsets tax assets and tax liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts
and where it intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

204

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

2.7.2 Deferred tax
	Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted
by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are
expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of changes in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized as
income or expense in the period that includes the enactment or the substantive enactment date.
	A deferred tax asset is recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the
deductible temporary differences and tax losses can be utilized.
	Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in other comprehensive
income or in equity). Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in OCI or directly
in equity.
	The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised
deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that
future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.

2.8

Property, plant and equipment
Recognition and measurement

	Freehold Land is carried at historical cost, all other item of property, plant and equipment is measured at cost, net of
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable
to the acquisition of the asset. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment and borrowing costs
for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of property, plant and equipment
are required to be replaced at intervals, the Company depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. Likewise,
when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the property, plant and equipment as
a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
	All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in statement of profit and loss as incurred. The Company identifies and
determines cost of each component/ part of property, plant and equipment separately, if the component/ part has a cost
which is significant to the total cost of the property, plant and equipment and has useful life that is materially different from
that of the remaining asset. These components are depreciated over their useful lives; the remaining asset is depreciated over
the life of the principal asset.
	Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, plant and equipment outstanding at each balance sheet date is classified as
capital advances and cost of assets not ready for use at the balance sheet date are disclosed under capital work- in- progress
is stated at cost less accumulated impairment loss.
	Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when
it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can
be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a separate assets are derecognised when
replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to statement of profit and loss during the reporting period in which
they are incurred.

Depreciation
	The Company depreciates property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method.
Leasehold assets are depreciated lower of lease period or life of the assets. The estimated useful lives of assets are as follows:
Useful lives estimated by the management in years:
Particulars

Years

Factory buildings

15-30

Other buildings

3-60

Furniture and fixtures

10

Office equipment

3-5

Plant and equipment

3-21

Vehicles

5

	Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed periodically, at each reporting date. Further, freehold land
are carried at historical cost and is not depreciated.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

205

De-recognition
	An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or when
no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset
(calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the
statement of profit and loss when the asset is derecognised.

2.9

Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible assets
are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated intangibles,
excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in the statement of profit
and loss in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.

Amortisation
	Amortisation is recognised in the statement of profit and loss on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
intangible assets.
The estimated useful life of assets are as follows:
Particulars

Years

Technical know-how fees

6-10

Capitalized software costs

3-5

Goodwill on business acquisition is not amortized but tested for impairment.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
	Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is
an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible
asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the
expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation
period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible
assets with finite lives is recognised in the statement of profit and loss unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value
of another asset.
	Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at
the cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed at each financial year end to determine whether the
indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.

De-recognition
	Intangible assets are de-recognised either on their disposal or where no future economic benefits are expected from their
use. Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the statement of profit and loss when the asset
is derecognised.

2.10 Leases
	The Company assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract conveys the
right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.

Company as a lessee
	The Company applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-term leases and leases
of low-value assets. The Company recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use assets representing
the right to use the underlying assets.

Right-of-use assets
	The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying asset is
available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and
adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities
recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease
incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the
estimated useful lives of the assets.
	The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in section 2.18 (b) Impairment of nonfinancial assets.

206

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Lease Liabilities
	At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease
payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments (including in substance fixed payments)
less any lease incentives receivable, variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, and amounts expected to be
paid under residual value guarantees. The lease payments also include the exercise price of a purchase option reasonably
certain to be exercised by the Company and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the
Company exercising the option to terminate. Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognised
as expenses (unless they are incurred to produce inventories) in the period in which the event or condition that triggers the
payment occurs.
	In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease commencement
date if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount of lease
liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying
amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a change in the lease payments
(e.g., changes to future payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine such lease payments) or a
change in the assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset.
	Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.

2.11 Borrowing costs
	Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a
substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. All other
borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that
an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost also includes exchange differences to the extent
regarded as an adjustment to the borrowing costs.

2.12 Inventories
	Inventories consist of raw materials, work-in-progress, finished goods, stock-in-trade and stores and spares. Inventories are
measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. However, materials and other items held for use in the production of
inventories are not written down below cost if the finished goods in which they will be incorporated are expected to be sold
at or above cost.
The cost of various categories of inventories is arrived at as follows:
Stores, spares, raw materials, components and stock-in-trade - at rates determined on the moving weighted average method.
Goods in Transit – at actual cost.
	Work-in-progress and finished goods - at full absorption cost method which includes direct materials, direct labour and
manufacturing overheads. Cost is determined on weighted average method.
	Cost includes expenditures incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in
bringing them to their existing location and condition.
Provision for obsolescence is made wherever necessary.
	Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and
the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
	The factors that the Company considers in determining the provision for slow moving, obsolete and other non-saleable
inventory include estimated shelf life, planned product discontinuances, price changes, ageing of inventory and introduction
of competitive new products, to the extent each of these factors impact the Company’s business and markets. The Company
considers all these factors and adjusts the inventory provision to reﬂect its actual experience on a periodic basis.

2.13 Financial instruments
	A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument
of another entity.

2.13.1 Initial recognition
	The Company recognizes financial assets and financial liabilities when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the
instrument. All financial assets and liabilities are recognized at fair value on initial recognition, except for trade receivables which
are initially measured at transaction price. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial
assets and financial liabilities, that are not at fair value through profit or loss, are added to the fair value on initial recognition.
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

207

2.13.2 Subsequent measurement
a.
		

Non-derivative financial instruments
(i)

Financial assets carried at amortised cost

			A financial asset is subsequently measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business where the objective is to
hold the asset in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on
specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
		

(ii)

Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income

			A financial asset is subsequently measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if it is held within
a business where the objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets
and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments
of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The Company has made an irrevocable election
for its investments which are classified as equity instruments to present the subsequent changes in fair value in
other comprehensive income based on its business model. Further, in cases where the Company has made an
irrevocable election based on its business model, for its investments which are classified as equity instruments,
the subsequent changes in fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income.
		

(iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss

			A financial asset which is not classified in any of the above categories are subsequently fair valued through profit
or loss.
		

(iv) Financial liabilities

			Financial liabilities are subsequently carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method, For trade and
other payables maturing within one year from the balance sheet date, the carrying amounts approximate fair value
due to the short maturity of these instruments.
		

Effective interest method

		The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial instrument and of allocating
interest income or expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts future
cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the financial instrument, or where appropriate, a shorter period.
		

Classification as debt or equity

		Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified according to the substance of the
contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
		

Equity Instruments

		An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all
of its liabilities. Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.

		

Financial liabilities

		Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at
amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method where the time value of money is significant. Interest bearing
bank loans, overdrafts are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest rate method. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the settlement or
redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings in the statement of profit and loss.
		For trade and other payables maturing within one year from the balance sheet date, the carrying amounts approximate
fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

		

Off-setting of financial instruments

		Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a currently
enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.

208

Corporate Overview

		

(v)

			

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Derecognition

A financial asset is primarily derecognised when:
•

The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or

•

 he Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to
T
pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement;
and either (a) the Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the
Company has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has
transferred control of the asset.

			

 ontinuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of
C
the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Company could be
required to repay.

			

A financial liability is primarily derecognised when:

b.

•

The obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires, or

•

 he existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms,
T
or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as
the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective
carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.

Derivative financial instruments

		The Company holds derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option contracts including
commodity contracts to mitigate the risk of changes in exchange rates on foreign currency exposures and fluctuation
in commodity prices. The counterparty for these contracts is generally a bank.
		

Financial assets or financial liabilities, at fair value through profit or loss.

		

This category has derivative financial assets or liabilities which are not designated as hedges.

		Although the Company believes that these derivatives constitute hedges from an economic perspective, they may not
qualify for hedge accounting under Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments. Any derivative that is either not designated a
hedge, or is so designated but is ineffective as per Ind AS 109, is categorized as a financial asset or financial liability, at
fair value through profit or loss.
		Derivatives not designated as hedges are recognized initially at fair value and attributable transaction costs are recognized
in the statement of profit and loss when incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, these derivatives are measured at
fair value through profit or loss and the resulting exchange gains or losses are included in other income / expenses.
Assets/ liabilities in this category are presented as current assets/current liabilities if they are either held for trading or
are expected to be realized within 12 months after the balance sheet date.
		Certain commercial contracts may grant rights to the Company or the counterparties, or contain other provisions that
are considered to be derivatives. Such embedded derivatives are assessed at inception of the contract and depending
on their characteristics, accounted for as separate derivative instruments and shown at their fair value in the balance
sheet with changes in their fair value recognized through profit or loss.

2.14 Fair value measurement of financial instruments
	Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
a)

In the principal market for the asset or liability, or

b)

In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability

The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.
Fair value hierarchy:

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

209

	All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the
fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as
a whole:
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
	Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or
indirectly observable.
Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
	For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
	For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the
nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
	In determining the fair value of its financial instruments, the Company uses a variety of methods and assumptions that are
based on market conditions and risks existing at each reporting date. The methods used to determine fair value includes
discounted cash flow analysis, available quoted market prices and dealer quotes. All methods of assessing fair value result
from general approximation of value and the same may differ from the actual realised value.

2.15 Cash flow statement
	Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, whereby profit for the period is adjusted for the effects of transactions
of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or payments and item of income or
expenses associated with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities
of the Company are segregated.

2.16 Finance costs
	Borrowing costs are recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss using the effective interest method. The associated cash
ﬂows are classiﬁed as ﬁnancing activities in the statement of cash ﬂows.

2.17 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
General
	A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation that is
reliably estimable, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect
of time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting
is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a ﬁnance cost.
	A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Company from a contract
are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. The provision is measured at the present
value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of continuing with the contract.
Before a provision is established, the Company recognises any impairment loss on the assets associated with that contract.

Warranty provisions
	Provisions for warranty-related costs are recognised when the product is sold to the customer. Initial recognition is based on
historical experience. The initial estimate of warranty-related costs is revised annually. Also, refer note 22.

Contingent Liabilities
	A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the occurrence
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Company or a present obligation that is
not recognized because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. A contingent
liability also arises in extremely rare cases where there is a liability that cannot be recognized because it cannot be measured
reliably. The Company does not recognize a contingent liability but discloses its existence in the financial statements.

210

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Contingent assets
	Contingent assets are not recognised or disclosed in financial statements since this may result in the recognition of income that
may never be realised. However, when the realisation of income is virtually certain, then the related asset is not a contingent
asset and is recognised.
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets are reviewed at each balance sheet.

2.18 Impairment
a

Financial assets

		Financial assets (other than at fair value) The Company assesses at each date of balance sheet whether a financial
asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. Ind AS 109 (‘Financial Instruments’) requires expected credit losses to
be measured through a loss allowance. The Company recognises lifetime expected losses for all contract assets and
/ or all trade receivables that do not constitute a financing transaction. For all other financial assets, expected credit
losses are measured at an amount equal to the 12-month expected credit losses or at an amount equal to the life time
expected credit losses if the credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition. The
Company provides for impairment upon the occurrence of the triggering event.

b

Non-financial assets

		The Company assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any
indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Company estimates the asset’s
recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value
less costs of disposal and its value in use. Recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset
does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. When the
carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written
down to its recoverable amount.
		Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are evaluated for recoverability whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, the
recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual
asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets. In
such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
		If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized in the statement of profit and loss is
measured by the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the estimated recoverable amount of the
asset. An impairment loss is reversed in the statement of profit and loss if there has been a change in the estimates used
to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss in case of goodwill is not reversed. The carrying amount of the
asset is increased to its revised recoverable amount, provided that this amount does not exceed the carrying amount
that would have been determined (net of any accumulated amortization or depreciation) had no impairment loss been
recognized for the asset in prior years.

2.19 Earnings per share
	The Company presents basic and diluted Earnings per share for its ordinary shares. Basic earnings per equity share is
computed by dividing the net profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of
equity shares outstanding during the year/period. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed by dividing the net profit
attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of equity shares considered for deriving
basic earnings per equity share and also the weighted average number of equity shares that could have been issued upon
conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares. The dilutive potential equity shares are adjusted for the proceeds receivable
had the equity shares been actually issued at fair value (i.e. the average market value of the outstanding equity shares). Dilutive
potential equity shares are deemed converted as of the beginning of the period, unless issued at a later date. Dilutive potential
equity shares are determined independently for each period presented.

2.20 Retirement and other employee benefits
2.20.1 Gratuity - defined benefit plans
		The present value of the obligation under defined benefit plans are determined based on actuarial valuation using
the Projected Unit Credit Method. In case of funded plans, the fair value of the plan assets is reduced from the gross
obligation under the defined benefit plans to recognize the obligation on a net basis.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

211

		Remeasurement comprising of actuarial gains and losses is recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI) and is
reflected in reserves and surplus as part of equity and is not eligible to be reclassified to profit or loss.
		The Company recognises the following changes in the net defined benefit obligation as an expense in statement of
profit and loss:
• Service cost including current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on curtailments and settlements; and
• Net interest expense or income.

2.20.2 Provident fund - Defined contribution scheme
		Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund and pension fund are defined contribution scheme. The Company has
no obligation, other than the contribution payable. The Company recognizes contribution payable to provident fund
and pension fund as expenditure, when an employee renders the related service.

2.20.3 Superannuation - Defined contribution scheme
		Contribution to Superannuation Fund, is made at pre-determined rates to the Superannuation Fund Trust and is charged
to the statement of profit and loss during the period in which the employee renders the related services. There are no
other obligations other than the contribution payable to the Superannuation Fund Trust. The corpus of which is invested
with the Life Insurance Corporation of India.

2.20.4 Compensated absences
		Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilised within the next 12 months, is treated as short-term employee
benefits. The Company measures the expected cost of such absences as the additional amount that it expects to pay
as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the reporting date. The Company presents the entire
accumulated leave as a current liability in the balance sheet, since it does not have an unconditional right to defer its
settlement for 12 months after the reporting date. Such long-term compensated absences are provided for based on
the actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method at each balance sheet date.

2.21 Cash and cash equivalents
	Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an original
maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
	For the purpose of statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cheque at hand/ remittance in
transit and cash and deposit with bank.

2.22 Cash dividend
	The Company recognises a liability to make cash distributions to equity holders of the Company when the distribution is
authorised and the distribution is no longer at the discretion of the Company. A corresponding amount is recognised directly
in equity. Final dividends on shares are recorded as a liability on the date of approval by the shareholders and interim dividends
are recorded as a liability on the date of declaration by the Company’s Board of Directors.

2.23 Corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’) expenditure
	The Company charges its CSR expenditure during the year to the statement of profit and loss.

2.24 Segment
	Operating segments are identified as those components of the Company (a) that engage in business activities to earn revenues
and incur expenses (including transactions with any of the Company’s other components (b) whose operating results are
regularly reviewed by the Company’s Chief Executive Officer to make decisions about resource allocation and performance
assessment and (c) for which discrete financial information is available. The accounting policies consistently used in the
preparation of the financial statements are also applied to record revenue and expenditure in individual segments.
	The Company is engaged in the business relating to products, projects and services for electricity transmission and related
activities. These activities of the Company are reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker from an overall business
perspective, rather than reviewing its products/services as individual standalone components and therefore subject to the
same risk and reward and accordingly falls within single business segment.

212

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

2.25 Climate-related matters
	The Company considers climate-related matters in estimates and assumptions, where appropriate. This assessment includes a
wide range of possible impacts on the Company due to both physical and transition risks. Even though the Company believes
its business model and products will still be viable after the transition to a low-carbon economy, climate-related matters
increase the uncertainty in estimates and assumptions underpinning several items in the financial statements. Even though
climate-related risks might not currently have a significant impact on measurement, the Company is closely monitoring relevant
changes and developments.

2.25 New and amended standards (Ind AS)
	The following amended standards as considered applicable were effective during the year, however, these amendments had
no material impact on the financial statements of the Company

(i)

Definition of Accounting Estimates - Amendments to Ind AS 8

		The amendments clarify the distinction between changes in accounting estimates and changes in accounting policies
and the correction of errors. It has also been clarified how entities use measurement techniques and inputs to develop
accounting estimates.
		The amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after April 01, 2023 and apply to changes
in accounting policies and changes in accounting estimates that occur on or after the start of that period.
		

(ii)

The amendments does not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Company.

Disclosure of Accounting Policies - Amendments to Ind AS 1

		The amendments aim to help entities provide accounting policy disclosures that are more useful by replacing the
requirement for entities to disclose their ‘significant’ accounting policies with a requirement to disclose their ‘material’
accounting policies and adding guidance on how entities apply the concept of materiality in making decisions about
accounting policy disclosures.
		The amendments to Ind AS 1 are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after April 01, 2023. Consequential
amendments have been made in Ind AS 107.
		

The amendments does not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Company.

(iii) 	Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction - Amendments to Ind
AS 12
		The amendments narrow the scope of the initial recognition exception under Ind AS 12, so that it no longer applies to
transactions that give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary differences.
		The amendments should be applied to transactions that occur on or after the beginning of the earliest comparative period
presented. In addition, at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented, a deferred tax asset (provided
that sufficient taxable profit is available) and a deferred tax liability should also be recognised for all deductible and
taxable temporary differences associated with leases and decommissioning obligations. Consequential amendments
have been made in Ind AS 101. The amendments to Ind AS 12 are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after
April 01, 2023.
		

The amendments does not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Company.

2.26 Recent Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
There are no standards that are notified and not yet effective as on the date.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

213

3

Property, plant and equipment and Right-of-use (ROU) assets
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Property, plant and equipment (Owned Assets)
Freehold
land

ROU Assets

Furniture
Factory
Other
Plant and Office
and
Vehicles
buildings buildings equipment equipment
fixtures

Leasehold
improvements

Total
Owned
Assets

Total
ROU
Assets

Leasehold Office
Vehicles
land
buildings

Gross carrying value
As at April 01, 2022

13.71

9.68

135.68

48.06

623.88

9.80

17.70

0.58

859.09

9.53

71.55

14.53

95.61

Additions

-

9.92

7.28

7.30

129.54

2.43

5.24

0.34

162.05

-

2.76

5.80

8.56

Reimbursement of capital
expenditure (refer note (iii)
below)

-

(2.58)

(1.50)

(15.28)

(4.16)

(2.13)

(2.85)

-

(28.50)

-

-

-

-

Disposals
As at March 31, 2023

-

-

(0.17)

-

(9.74)

(0.28)

(0.26)

-

(10.45)

-

(3.31)

(2.82)

(6.13)

13.71

17.02

141.29

40.08

739.52

9.82

19.83

0.92

982.19

9.53

71.00

17.51

98.04

Additions

-

0.82

0.66

3.73

42.67

1.50

2.80

1.47

53.65

-

10.58

8.83

19.41

Disposals

-

(0.11)

(0.03)

(0.08)

(4.18)

(0.08)

(0.21)

-

(4.69)

-

(11.55)

(4.03)

(15.58)

13.71

17.73

141.92

43.73

778.01

11.24

22.42

2.39 1,031.15

9.53

70.03

22.31

101.87

As at April 01, 2022

-

3.61

20.21

9.64

267.73

4.74

5.82

0.13

311.88

1.01

16.70

5.95

23.66

Depreciation charge for the
year

-

2.60

6.47

1.87

50.75

1.77

2.14

0.15

65.75

0.09

11.72

4.28

16.09

Reimbursement of capital
expenditure (refer note (iii)
below)

-

(0.77)

(0.04)

(0.41)

(0.33)

(0.40)

(0.30)

-

(2.25)

-

-

-

-

As at March 31, 2024
Accumulated depreciation

Disposals

-

-

(0.13)

-

(9.28)

(0.28)

(0.25)

-

(9.94)

-

(3.00)

(2.41)

(5.41)

As at March 31, 2023

-

5.44

26.51

11.10

308.87

5.83

7.41

0.28

365.44

1.10

25.42

7.82

34.34

Depreciation charge for the
year

-

2.83

6.52

1.83

58.30

1.56

2.21

0.28

73.53

0.09

11.37

4.54

16.00

Disposals

-

(0.11)

(0.02)

(0.08)

(3.43)

(0.08)

(0.17)

-

(3.89)

-

(11.51)

(3.44)

(14.95)

As at March 31, 2024

-

8.16

33.01

12.85

363.74

7.31

9.45

0.56

435.08

1.19

25.28

8.92

35.39

Net carrying value
as at March 31, 2023

13.71

11.58

114.78

28.98

430.65

3.99

12.42

0.64

616.75

8.43

45.58

9.69

63.70

Net carrying value
as at March 31, 2024

13.71

9.57

108.91

30.88

414.27

3.93

12.97

1.83

596.07

8.34

44.75

13.39

66.48

Notes:
i)

There are no property, plant and equipment given on operating lease.

ii)	Pursuant to the Scheme of arrangement, as detailed in note 16(g), freehold land, leasehold land, factory buildings and other
buildings has been transferred to the Company from ABB India Limited. Out of such assets, as at March 31, 2024, the Company
is in process of getting the registered name transferred to the Company for gross block (deemed cost) amounting to C 174.81
crores and net carrying value amounting to C 135.33 crores. Furthermore, the title deeds of aforementioned properties are not
in the name of a promoter.
iii)	Reimbursement of capital expenditure: During the year ended March 31, 2023, Hitachi Energy Ltd entered into an agreement
with the Company towards reimbursement of C 28.50 crore pertaining to capital expenditure incurred by the Company post
separation of Power Grids business as such cost was not to be incurred by the Company, pursuant to global arrangement
with ABB Ltd, Switzerland (‘ABB’) and Hitachi Ltd, Japan (‘Hitachi’) (being the shareholders of Hitachi Energy Ltd).Accordingly,
the reimbursement of C 28.50 Crore receivable has been reduced from the gross block of property, plant and equipment with
a consequent impact on accumulated depreciation as on March 31, 2023 amounting to C 2.25 crore which has been adjusted
against the depreciation in the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023. Also refer note 39.

214

Corporate Overview

4

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Capital work-in-progress
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Amount

Gross carrying value
As at April 01, 2022
Additions
Capitalised during the year
As at March 31, 2023
Additions
Capitalised during the year
As at March 31, 2024

118.33
92.39
(162.05)
48.67
67.55
(53.65)
62.57

Capital work-in-progress ageing schedule
As at March 31, 2024

Projects in progress*
Projects temporarily suspended

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

37.74

17.40

0.04

7.39

62.57

-

-

-

-

-

37.74

17.40

0.04

7.39

62.57

	* Projects in progress aged more than 3 years includes certain assets transferred to the Company, pursuant to the scheme of arrangement,
as detailed in note 16(g), which are yet to be capitalised on account of pending approval from regulatory authorities. Further, there is no cost
over run in this regard.

As at March 31, 2023

Projects in progress**
Projects temporarily suspended

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

34.99

6.29

2.81

4.58

48.67

-

-

-

-

-

34.99

6.29

2.81

4.58

48.67

	**Projects in progress aged more than 2 years includes certain assets transferred to the Company, pursuant to the scheme of arrangement,
as detailed in note 16(g), which are yet to be capitalised on account of pending approval from regulatory authorities. Further, there is no cost
over run in this regard.

5

Goodwill and other intangible assets
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Other intangible assets
Goodwill

Technical
Know-how fees

Capitalised
Software

Total

37.42

Gross carrying value
As at April 01, 2022

31.80

33.36

4.06

Additions

-

-

0.07

0.07

Disposals

-

-

(0.17)

(0.17)

As at March 31, 2023

31.80

33.36

3.96

37.32

Additions

-

-

-

-

Disposals

-

-

-

-

31.80

33.36

3.96

37.32

As at April 01, 2022

-

33.36

2.48

35.84

Amortisation charge for the year

-

-

0.57

0.57

Disposals

-

-

(0.17)

(0.17)

As at March 31, 2023

-

33.36

2.88

36.24

Amortisation charge for the year

-

-

0.48

0.48

Disposals

-

-

-

-

As at March 31, 2024

-

33.36

3.36

36.72

Net carrying value as at March 31, 2023

31.80

-

1.08

1.08

Net carrying value as at March 31, 2024

31.80

-

0.60

0.60

As at March 31, 2024
Accumulated amortisation/ impairment

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

215

Goodwill impairment testing
	The carrying amount of goodwill as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 has been attributed to power grids business as a
cash generating unit (‘CGU’). The Company tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment on an annual basis or in case
of any indicator. The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations which require the use of
assumptions. The calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the management. An
average of the range of each assumption used as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 is mentioned below.
March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Growth rate

5.00% - 6.00%

5.00% - 6.00%

Operating margins

4.00% - 7.00%

3.00% - 7.00%

10.00%

7.50%

Discount rate

	The above discount rate is based on the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) which represents the weighted average
return attributable to all the assets of the CGU. These estimates are likely to differ from future actual results of operations and
cash flows.
Based on the above assessment, there has been no impairment of goodwill.

6

Loans
(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Non-current
March 31, 2024

Loans to employees

7

Current

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

3.15

3.49

3.72

2.19

3.15

3.49

3.72

2.19

Other financial assets
(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Non-current

Security deposits

Current

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

13.75

13.59

4.02

3.83

Security deposits which have significant increase in credit risk

-

-

0.31

0.31

Less: Impairment allowance on security deposits which have
significant increase in credit risk

-

-

0.31

0.31

-

-

-

-

Deposits with customers

-

-

4.15

5.00

Deposits with customers which have significant increase in
credit risk

-

-

2.64

2.22

Less: Impairment allowance on deposits with customers which
have significant increase in credit risk

-

-

2.64

2.22

-

-

-

-

Other receivables (refer note 39)

-

-

32.93

15.03

Other receivables which have significant increase in credit risk

-

-

1.31

1.61

Less: Impairment allowance on other receivables which have
significant increase in credit risk

-

-

1.31

1.61

-

-

-

-

Mark to market gain on forward contracts*

-

-

3.56

1.74

Mark to market gain on embedded derivatives*

-

-

5.99

8.87

13.75

13.59

50.65

34.47

	* Mark to market gain is identified and accounted based on the underlying contracts. The derivatives are recognised at fair value through
statement of profit and loss.

216

Corporate Overview

8

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Non-current tax asset (net)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Advance income-tax (net of provision for current tax)

9

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

33.08

33.80

33.08

33.80

Income tax
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

The major components of income tax expense for the year:
Statement of profit and loss:
Current tax

77.41

35.94

Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods

0.72

(1.39)

Deferred tax charge/ (credit)

(20.21)

2.37

57.92

36.92

1.62

(0.59)

1.62

(0.59)

Accounting profit before income tax

221.70

130.82

At India's statutory tax rate of 25.17% for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023

55.80

32.93

1.40

1.84

Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
Other comprehensive income ('OCI')
Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:
Income tax (expense)/ credit to OCI
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate:

Adjustments in respect of current income tax:
Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes
Foreign tax credit ineligible

-

1.68

Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods (including impact of deferred tax)

0.72

0.47

Income tax expense at effective tax rate of 26.13% (March 31, 2023 : 28.22%)

57.92

36.92

Deferred tax assets/ (liabilities) relates to the following:

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets: Impact of difference between tax depreciation
and depreciation/ amortization charged for the financial reporting

(55.09)

(58.08)

Right-of-use assets

(14.53)

(13.91)

Provision for doubtful debts and advances

56.83

56.86

Lease liabilities

16.03

14.93

Demerger related expenses

6.51

9.09

Expenditure debited to the statement of profit and loss but allowable for tax purpose in subsequent years

43.95

22.98

Net deferred tax assets/ (liabilities)

53.70

31.87

Deferred tax assets

123.32

103.86

Deferred tax liabilities

(69.62)

(71.99)

Deferred tax assets/ (liabilities), net

53.70

31.87

Reconciliation of deferred tax assets/ (liabilities) (net)

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Opening balance as at the commencement of the year

31.87

34.83

Tax income/ (expense) during the year recognised in profit or loss

20.21

(2.37)

Tax income/ (expense) during the year recognised in OCI

1.62

(0.59)

Tax income/ (expense) during the year recognised in retained earnings

21.83

(2.96)

Closing balance

53.70

31.87

10 Other non-current assets
(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Capital advances

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

17.42

1.90

17.42

1.90

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

217

11 Inventories (valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Raw materials and components (includes goods in transit of C 39.99 crores
(March 31, 2023: C 32.34 crores))
Work-in-progress
Finished goods
Stock-in-trade
Stores and spares

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

462.96

369.66

334.85
87.68
0.39
2.06
887.94

332.22
113.07
0.54
2.41
817.90

	In relation to inventories being carried at net realisable value C 14.68 crore and (C 5.91) crore has been recorded as expense/
(reversal) for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 respectively.

12 Trade receivables
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Non-current

Current

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

-

-

1,521.71

1,527.77

Unsecured
Considered good
Trade receivables which have significant increase in credit risk
Trade receivables - credit impaired

-

-

156.69

146.41

54.85

65.98

-

-

54.85

65.98

1,678.40

1,674.18

Less: Impairment allowance
(allowance for bad and doubtful debts)
Trade receivables which have significant increase in credit risk
Trade receivables - credit impaired

1.

-

-

156.69

146.41

54.85

65.98

-

-

-

-

1,521.71

1,527.77

Trade receivables from related parties (refer note 39).

2.	No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other
person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies respectively in which any director is a
partner, a director or a member.									
3.

Trade receivables are non-interest bearing.									

4.

Trade receivables is inclusive of the retention receivables.

5.

Refer note 33(C)(iv) for details pertaining to credit risk.

6.

Refer note 38(b) for details pertaining to contract balances.

Trade receivables ageing Schedule
As at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
6 months
- 1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More
than 3
years

Total

303.86
4.63

60.57
4.69

24.82
11.34

5.71
13.56

69.65

1,513.54
106.32

3.38
3.60
-

1.25
0.05

1.64
2.92
0.14

6.37
0.40
0.09

26.33
0.14

7.79
49.95

45.51
8.17
50.37

78.99 1,049.02

309.79

69.96

43.02

45.74

9.34
136.73

9.34
1,733.25
211.54
1,521.71

Unbilled

Undisputed Trade Receivables – considered good
Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have
significant increase in credit risk
Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired
Disputed Trade Receivables – considered good
Disputed Trade Receivables – which have
significant increase in credit risk
Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired
Less: Impairment allowance
Total trade receivables

218

Not due Less than
6 months

78.78 1,039.80
0.21
2.24
-

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Trade receivables ageing Schedule
As at March 31, 2023
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due

Less than
6 months

6 months
- 1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More
than 3
years

Total

Undisputed Trade Receivables – considered good

95.64 1,120.59

247.36

34.18

25.86

-

-

1,523.63

Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have
significant increase in credit risk

0.36

1.89

3.06

3.56

13.97

30.30

41.10

94.24
53.31

Unbilled

Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired

-

0.02

3.14

4.50

37.86

4.47

3.32

Disputed Trade Receivables – considered good

-

-

-

-

4.14

-

-

4.14

Disputed Trade Receivables – which have
significant increase in credit risk

-

-

-

-

1.95

-

50.22

52.17

Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired

-

-

-

-

1.17

0.02

11.48

12.67

96.00 1,122.50

253.56

42.24

84.95

34.79

106.12

1,740.16

Less: Impairment allowance

212.39

Total trade receivables

1,527.77

13 Cash and cash equivalents							
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

126.87

146.53

1.17

16.66

128.04

163.19

Balances with banks
- on current accounts
Cheques on hand/ remittance in transit
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows

Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities:
Lease liabilities

Borrowings

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Balance as at the beginning of the year

59.31

65.00

275.00

125.00

Cash inflows/ (outflows)

(18.49)

(17.84)

(125.00)

150.00

19.16

8.51

-

-

Non-cash changes
-Additions
-Accretion of interest

4.32

4.24

-

-

-Deletions

(0.62)

(0.60)

-

-

63.68

59.31

150.00

275.00

Balance as at the end of the year

14 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalent
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Unpaid dividend account

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

0.16

0.10

0.16

0.10

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

219

15 Other current assets
(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Prepaid expenses

31.25

33.09

Contract assets (refer note 38(b) and note 39)

748.41

177.32

Contract assets which have significant increase in credit risk

10.00

9.27

Less: impairment allowance on contract assets which have significant increase in credit risk

10.00

9.27

-

-

Advances other than capital advances (refer note 39)

95.98

54.42

Advances other than capital advances which have significant increase in credit risk

0.01

0.12

Less: impairment allowance on advances other than capital advances which have significant increase
in credit risk

0.01

0.12

Balance with government authorities

-

-

360.89

261.41

1,236.53

526.24

16 Equity
Share capital
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Equity shares

a.

At April 01, 2022
Changes during the year
At March 31, 2023
Changes during the year
At March 31, 2024
b.

Amount

50,000,000

10.00

-

-

50,000,000

10.00

-

-

50,000,000

10.00

Number of shares

Amount

42,381,675

8.48

Issued equity share capital
Equity shares of E 2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid up
At April 01, 2022
Changes during the year
At March 31, 2023
Changes during the year
At March 31, 2024

c.

Number of shares

Authorised share capital

-

-

42,381,675

8.48

-

-

42,381,675

8.48

Terms/ rights attached to equity shares

	The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of C 2/- per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled
to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian Rupees.
	The Board of directors have recommended dividend of C 4/- per equity share, which translates to a total dividend of C 16.95
crores, for the year ended March 31, 2024. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the
shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
	In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company,
after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the
shareholders.

220

Corporate Overview

d.

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Details of shareholders holding more than 5% of the shares in the Company
March 31, 2024
Name of the shareholders

Number of
shares

31,786,256

March 31, 2023

% of holding

Number of
shares

% of holding

75.00%

31,786,256

75.00%

Equity shares of C 2 each, fully paid up
Hitachi Energy Ltd - the holding company

	As per records of the Company and other declarations received from shareholders, the above shareholding represents both
legal and beneficial ownerships of shares.

e.

Shares held by holding/ ultimate holding company and/ or their subsidiaries/ associates

	Out of the equity shares issued by the Company, shares held by its holding company, ultimate holding company and their
subsidiaries/ associates are as below:
March 31, 2024
Name of the shareholders

Number of shares

March 31, 2023
Amount

Number of shares

Amount

Equity shares of C 2 each, fully paid up
31,786,256

6.36

31,786,256

6.36

31,786,256

6.36

31,786,256

6.36

No. of shares at
the beginning of
the year

Changes during
the year

No. of shares at
the end of the
year

% of total Shares

% change during
the year

31,786,256

-

31,786,256

75.00%

-

No. of shares at
the beginning of
the year

Changes during
the year

No. of shares at
the end of the
year

% of total Shares

% change during
the year

31,786,256

-

31,786,256

75.00%

-

Hitachi Energy Ltd - the holding company

f.

Shares held by promoters
As at March 31, 2024
Name of the promoters

Equity shares of C 2 each, fully paid up
Hitachi Energy Ltd - the holding company

As at March 31, 2023
Name of the promoters

Equity shares of C 2 each, fully paid up
Hitachi Energy Ltd - the holding company

g.	Aggregate number of shares issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years
immediately preceding the reporting date:
	The Board of directors of ABB India Limited on March 5, 2019 approved the Scheme of Arrangement under Sections 230-232
and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Scheme’) between ABB India Limited (‘transferor Company’),
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited (“‘Resulting Company’ or‚ ‘APPSIL’’’) and their respective shareholders and
creditors for the demerger of Power Grid business from ABB India Limited into the Company. The appointment date for the
Scheme was April 01, 2019. The Scheme was approved by National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Bengaluru Bench vide its
order dated. November 27, 2019 and a certified copy has been filed by the Company with the Registrar of Companies, Bengaluru,
on December 1, 2019 (effective date). Pursuant to the aforesaid Scheme, on December 24, 2019, the Company issued 42,381,675
number of fully paid equity shares having face value of C 2 each to the existing equity shareholders of ABB India Limited in the
proportion of 1 share for every 5 shares held. Further, 50,000 number of shares issued to the ABB India Limited at the time of
incorporation of the Company was cancelled as per the aforesaid Scheme.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

221

17 Other equity
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

a)

Opening balance
Changes during the year
Closing balance
b)

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

9.80

9.80

Securities premium
-

-

9.80

9.80

691.31

608.39

163.78

93.90

Retained earnings
Opening balance
Changes during the year:
Net profit for the year

c)

Other comprehensive income (net of tax)

(4.81)

1.74

Less: Appropriations during the year: Equity dividend

(14.41)

(12.72)

Closing balance

835.87

691.31

(1.56)

(1.56)

Amalgamation adjustment deficit account
Opening balance
Changes during the year
Closing balance

d)

(1.56)

0.18

0.18

-

-

0.18

0.18

507.10

507.10

-

-

Capital reserve
Opening balance
Changes during the year
Closing balance

e)

(1.56)

General reserve
Opening balance
Changes during the year
Closing balance
Total other equity

507.10

507.10

1,351.39

1,206.83

Nature and purpose of other reserves
a)

Securities premium

	Securities premium acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement shall be utilised in accordance with the provisions of Companies
Act, 2013.

b)

Retained earnings

	Retained earnings are the profits of the Company earned till date net of appropriations/distributions, includes amount acquired
pursuant to scheme of arrangement and other adjustments permitted as per the applicable regulations and accounting standards.

c)

Amalgamation adjustment deficit account

	Amalgamation adjustment deﬁcit account is the deficit between the carrying value of assets, liabilities and reserves transferred
to the Company and the consideration discharged by way of the New Equity Shares issued to the shareholders of ABB India
Limited pursuant to the demerger of Power Grid Business from ABB India Limited (refer note 16(g)).

d)

Capital reserve
Capital reserve is acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement.

e)

General reserve

	General reserve is acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement. The Company can use this reserve for payment of dividend
and issue of fully paid-up shares. As General reserve is created by transfer of one component of equity to another and is not an
item of other comprehensive income, items included in the General reserve will not be subsequently reclassified to statement
of profit and loss.

222

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

18 Other financial liabilities		
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Non-Current

Security deposits received
Unpaid dividend#
Payable towards purchase of capital goods (refer note 39)

Current

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2024

0.71

0.89

-

March 31, 2023

-

-

-

0.16

0.10

-

-

18.43

24.72

Employee related payables

3.57

1.31

75.26

52.40

Interest accrued but not due

-

-

0.03

0.05

Mark to market loss on forward contracts*

-

-

4.33

3.36

Mark to market loss on embedded derivatives*

-

-

4.90

6.38

Other payables (refer note 39)

-

-

26.95

36.07

4.28

2.20

130.06

123.08

	* Mark to market loss is identified and accounted based on the underlying contracts. The derivatives are recognised at fair value through
statement of profit and loss.
# There are no amounts which are required to be transferred to Investor Education & Protection Fund.

19 Borrowings
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Bank loan (Unsecured)

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

150.00

275.00

150.00

275.00

	The rate of interest for short term loans from banks ranges from 7.57% to 7.59% (March 31, 2023 - 7.13% to 7.91%) per annum. Refer note
33(C)(iii) for details pertaining to interest rates and related risk.

20 Trade payables
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises*
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
Acceptances
Other trade payables

1)
2)

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

50.33
50.33

76.22
76.22

549.58
1,209.81
1,759.39

515.84
922.56
1,438.40

1,809.72

1,514.62

Trade payables to related parties (refer note 39).
Refer note 33(C)(v) for details pertaining to liquidity risk.

* The Company has amounts due to Micro and Small Enterprises under The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
(MSMED Act) as at March 31, 2024 and as at March 31, 2023.
(i)

The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier at each
accounting year
Principal amount
Interest
(ii) The amount of interest paid by the Company along with the amounts of the payment made to the
supplier beyond the appointed day for each accounting year

48.06
0.42

74.90
0.55

Principal amount
Interest
(iii) The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which have
been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year).

0.56

0.57

(iv) The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid for each accounting year
(v) The amount of further interest remaining due and payable for the earlier years
(vi) The amount (including interest) due as at each accounting year

0.98
1.29
50.33

1.12
0.20
76.22

	
The above disclosures are provided by the Company based on the information available with the Company in respect of the registration status
of its vendors/suppliers.
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

223

	Foreign currency trade payables amounting to C 32.42 crores (March 31, 2023: C 60.61 crores) includes C 11.86 crores (March 31,
2023: C 13.64 crores) which are payable from more than 3 years, towards purchase of goods and services, which are outstanding
beyond permissible time period stipulated under the Master Circular on Import of Goods and Services issued by Reserve Bank
of India (‘the RBI’), which states that payments against imports of goods are required to be made within 6 months from date of
shipment. Considering that the balances are outstanding for more than the stipulated time, the Company is in the process of
intimating the appropriate regulatory authorities and seeking requisite approvals for extensions. The management is confident
that required approvals would be received and penalties, if any that may be imposed on the Company would not be material.
Accordingly, no adjustments have been made by the management to these financial statements in this regard.

Trade payables Ageing Schedule
As at March 31, 2024

Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small
enterprises
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro
enterprises and small enterprises

Outstanding for following periods from
due date of payment

Unbilled

Total

Not due

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

42.05

2.20

1.10

-

0.39

50.27

479.84 1,017.75

227.52

11.54

0.61

21.92

1,759.18

4.53

Disputed dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises

-

0.06

-

-

-

-

0.06

Disputed dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and
small enterprises

-

0.07

-

-

-

0.14

0.21

484.37 1059.93

229.72

12.64

0.61

22.45

1,809.72

As at March 31, 2023

Outstanding for following periods from due
date of payment

Unbilled
Not due

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small
enterprises

16.12

54.38

5.17

-

0.14

0.35

76.16

Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro
enterprises and small enterprises

344.82

846.11

197.42

4.67

23.24

20.30

1,436.56

Disputed dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises

-

0.06

-

-

-

-

0.06

Disputed dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and
small enterprises

-

0.92

-

-

-

0.92

1.84

360.94

901.47

202.59

4.67

23.38

21.57

1,514.62

21 Other current liabilities		
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Billing in excess of contract revenue (refer note 38(b))

42.58

41.80

Statutory dues payable*

16.97

23.26

Advance from customer (refer note 38(b) and note 39)

881.61

468.73

941.16

533.79

	* Statutory dues payable mainly includes contribution to Provident Fund, Goods and Service tax (GST), Employee State Insurance, withholding
taxes etc.

22 Provisions
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Provisions for employee benefits
Gratuity (refer note 32)

19.72

8.34

Compensated absences

35.96

27.92

Warranties

139.31

139.81

Loss orders

26.91

19.13

221.90

195.20

Other provisions

224

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Nature of provisions:
i)	Warranties: The Company provides warranties for its products, systems and services, undertaking to repair or replace
the items that fail to perform satisfactorily during the warranty period. Provision represents the amount of the expected
cost based on technical evaluation and past experience of meeting such obligations. It is expected that this expenditure
will be incurred over the contractual warranty period.
ii)	Loss orders: A provision for expected loss on construction contracts is recognised when it is probable that the contract
costs will exceed total contract revenue. For all other contracts loss order provisions are made when the unavoidable costs
of meeting the obligation under the contract exceed the currently estimated economic benefits.

Details of changes in provisions during the year (Figures in brackets are in respect of the previous year)
Class of provisions

Warranties

Loss orders

As at
April 01, 2023

Additions

Amounts used

Unused Amounts
reversed

As at
March 31, 2024

139.81

34.62

20.51

14.61

139.31

(129.05)

(35.95)

(11.47)

(13.72)

(139.81)

19.13

22.11

12.89

1.44

26.91

(15.92)

(16.54)

(12.89)

(0.44)

(19.13)

23 Revenue from operations
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of products

3,644.34

3,528.74

Revenue from execution of contracts for projects and services

1,319.36

711.51

Sale of services

132.34

94.25

5,096.04

4,334.50

Scrap sales

30.06

28.13

Commission income

4.67

16.38

100.07

89.25

6.65

0.25

Other operating revenues

Income from development services and other services
Others
Revenue from operations*

141.45

134.01

5,237.49

4,468.51

*Also refer note 37, 38 and 39

24 Other income
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Liabilities/ provisions no longer required written back (refer note 39)

5.57

14.55

Exchange and commodity rate difference (net)

2.99

-

0.59

0.57

Interest income:
Interest on security deposit and others
Others

0.14

0.02

9.29

15.14

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

225

25 Cost of raw materials, components consumed and project bought outs
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Inventory at the beginning of the year
Add : Purchases during the year (refer note 39)
Less : Inventory at the end of the year

369.66

355.57

3,201.90

2,735.33

462.96

369.66

3,108.60

2,721.24

26	(Increase)/decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Opening stock
- Finished goods

113.07

59.26

- Work-in-progress

332.22

288.34

- Stock-in-trade

0.54

2.34

445.83

349.94

- Finished goods

87.68

113.07

- Work-in-progress

334.85

332.22

- Stock-in-trade

0.39

0.54

422.92

445.83

22.91

(95.89)

Closing stock

27 Employee benefits expense
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Salaries, wages and bonus

434.88

365.90

Gratuity expense (refer note 32)

6.99

6.42

Contribution to provident fund

14.56

12.85

Contribution to superannuation fund

6.90

6.76

Contribution to other funds*

4.25

4.22

Staff welfare expenses

20.11

19.04

Training, recruitment and transfer expenses

2.46

2.10

490.15

417.29

* Includes contribution to Employee Pension Scheme, Labour Welfare Fund and Employee State Insurance.

28 Depreciation and amortisation expense
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

226

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (refer note 3)

73.53

Amortisation of intangible assets (refer note 5)

0.48

63.50
0.57

Depreciation of right-of-use assets (refer note 3)

16.00

16.09

90.01

80.16

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

29 Finance costs
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Interest expenses

39.21

34.27

Interest on income tax

1.56

0.78

Bill discounting and other charges

1.46

0.80

Interest on lease liabilities (refer note 36(b))

4.32

4.24

46.55

40.09

30 Other expenses*			
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Consumption of stores and spares

36.83

34.07

Royalty and technology fees

190.71

147.35

Freight and forwarding

99.60

163.80

Commission (other than sole selling agent)

10.31

3.35

Power and fuel

70.70

65.40

Travelling and conveyance

60.13

50.34

Insurance

23.85

20.43

Rates and taxes (net)

3.77

6.54

Rent (refer note 36(b))

4.13

3.68

Repairs and maintenance
Buildings

1.71

2.13

Plant and machinery

30.99

29.09

Others

6.45

6.73

Provision for doubtful debts and advances/ bad debts/ advances written off

7.45

14.49

Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)

0.38

0.47

Bank charges

10.06

14.05

Legal and professional fees**

69.96

56.79

Corporate social responsibility expenditure (refer note 40)

3.68

4.25

128.31

94.55

-

27.09

Information technology expenses
Exchange and commodity rate difference (net)
Director's fees and commission

1.40

1.45

Services from third parties

70.62

53.43

Testing and inspection charges

36.97

29.43

Group management fees

65.00

61.89

Miscellaneous

62.84

62.95

995.85

953.75

*Also refer note 39.
	** Includes auditor’s remuneration (exclusive of goods and service tax and inclusive of out-of-pocket expenses and technology surcharge)
towards the following:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Statutory audit fee

0.68

0.52

Tax audit fee

0.18

0.28

Limited review fee

0.42

0.39

Group audit fee

0.16

0.15

Other certification fee

0.15

0.15

Reimbursement of expenses

0.02

0.03

1.61

1.52

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

227

31 Earnings per share (EPS)
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Earnings
Profit attributable to equity shareholders

163.78

93.90

42,381,675

42,381,675

Shares
Weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year - basic
Dilutive effect on shares
Weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year - diluted
Earnings per share of par value E 2/- each - Basic and diluted (in E)

-

-

42,381,675

42,381,675

38.64

22.16

32 Post-employment benefit plan
Gratuity plan :
	Gratuity is payable to all eligible employees of the Company as per the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 or as
per the Company’s scheme, whichever is higher. The plan assets are held by Hitachi Energy India Limited Employees’ Gratuity
Trust (The said trust was duly set up by Company on September 1, 2020 and the same was approved on February 22, 2021
by Hon’ble Commissioner of Income Tax).
	Under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, every employee who has completed five years or more of service gets gratuity on
departure at 15 days salary (last drawn salary) for each completed year of service. The level of benefits provided depends on
the member’s length of service and salary at retirement age. The Gratuity scheme provides for a lump sum payment made on
exit either by way of retirement, death, disability or voluntary withdrawal. The benefits are defined on the basis of final salary
and the period of service and paid as lump sum at exit.
	Assumptions relating to future salary increases, attrition, interest rate for discount and overall expected rate of return on assets
have been considered based on relevant economic factors such as inflation, market growth and other factors applicable to the
period over which the obligation is expected to be settled.
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Gratuity
The following table sets out movement in defined benefits liability and the amount recognised in the
financial statements:
Gratuity provision

19.72

8.34

Total

19.72

8.34

i)

Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets :
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Defined benefit
obligation

Fair value of
plan assets

Net defined
benefit liability

As at April 01, 2022

84.52

79.28

5.24

Service cost

6.10

-

6.10

Net interest expense

5.56

5.24

0.32

Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss (Note 27)

11.66

5.24

6.42

Remeasurement (gains)/ losses in other comprehensive income:
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)

228

-

0.14

(0.14)

Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions

(2.68)

-

(2.68)

Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments

0.49

-

0.49

Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income

(2.19)

0.14

(2.33)

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Defined benefit
obligation

Fair value of
plan assets

Net defined
benefit liability

-

-

-

Contributions by employer
Benefits paid

(5.37)

(4.38)

(0.99)

As at March 31, 2023

88.62

80.28

8.34

Service cost

6.46

-

6.46

Net interest expense

6.06

5.53

0.53

Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss (Note 27)

12.52

5.53

6.99

Remeasurement (gains)/ losses in other comprehensive income:
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)

-

0.34

(0.34)

Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions

1.41

-

1.41

Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments

5.36

-

5.36

Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income

6.77

0.34

6.43

-

-

-

Contributions by employer

ii)

Benefits paid

(8.87)

(6.83)

(2.04)

As at March 31, 2024

99.04

79.32

19.72

Amount recognized in balance sheet
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Present value of funded obligations

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

99.04

88.62

Fair value of plan assets

79.32

80.28

Net funded obligation

(19.72)

(8.34)

Net defined benefit liability recognised in balance sheet

(19.72)

(8.34)

iii) Expense recognised in statement of profit and loss (refer note 27)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Current service cost

6.46

6.10

Net interest expense

0.53

0.32

6.99

6.42

iv) Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

v)

Actuarial (gain)/ loss on defined benefit obligation

6.77

Return on plan assets excluding interest income

(0.34)

(2.19)
(0.14)

6.43

(2.33)

The major categories of plan assets of the fair value of the total plan assets are as follows:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Investments
Scheme of insurance - Conventional products				

100.00%

100.00%

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

229

vi) The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity obligations are shown below:
For the year ended
March 31, 2024

For the year ended
March 31, 2023

7.00%

7.20%

Discount rate
Future salary increases
Employee turnover

Mortality rate

7.75%

7.75%

Age 20-24- 12%

Age 20-24- 12%

Age 25-34 - 9%

Age 25-34 - 9%

Age 35-44 - 7%

Age 35-44 - 7%

Age 45-54 - 4%

Age 45-54 - 4%

Thereafter 2%

Thereafter 2%

Mortality (2006-08) Ult.

Mortality (2006-08) Ult.

vii) The following are expected payments from the defined benefit plan in future years:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

8.45

8.34
40.51

Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
Between 1 and 5 years

39.05

Beyond 5 years

140.08

59.94

Total expected payments

187.58

108.79

viii) The following are expected contributions to the defined benefit plan in future years:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

19.72

8.34

Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)				

		The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 8 years (March 31, 2023:
8 years)

ix) A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption is as shown below:
				
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
As at March 31, 2024
Assumptions

Sensitivity analysis
1% increase
1% decrease

As at March 31, 2023

Discount rate

Future salary
increases

Discount rate

Future salary
increases

(6.69)
7.66

7.53
(6.71)

(6.11)
6.99

6.89
(6.14)

		
Impact on defined benefit obligation										
		The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit
obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The sensitivity
analysis are based on a change in a significant assumption, keeping all other assumptions constant. The sensitivity analysis
may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions
would occur in isolation from one another.

33 Financial instruments
	This section gives an overview of the significance of financial instruments for the Company and provides additional information
on balance sheet items that contain financial instruments.
	The details of material accounting policies, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on
which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liabilities and equity instrument
are disclosed in the financial statements.						

230

Corporate Overview

A

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities

	The carrying amount of all financial assets and liabilities appearing in the financial statements is reasonable approximation of
fair value. The following tables presents the carrying value and fair value / amortised cost of each category of financial assets
and liabilities:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Carrying and Fair Value /
amortised cost

Particulars

As at
March 31, 2024

As at
March 31, 2023

Financial assets at amortised cost :
Loans (refer note 6)

6.87

5.68

Other financial assets (refer note 7)

54.85

37.45

Trade receivables (refer note 12)

1,521.71

1,527.77

128.04

163.19

0.16

0.10

Cash and cash equivalents (refer note 13)
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalent (refer note 14)
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss :
Derivative instruments (refer note 7)
Total financial assets

9.55

10.61

1,721.18

1,744.80

Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Borrowings (refer note 19)
Trade payables (refer note 20)

150.00

275.00

1,809.72

1,514.62

Lease liabilities (refer note 36(b))

63.68

59.31

Other financial liabilities (refer note 18)

125.11

115.54

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss :
Derivative instruments (refer note 18)
Total financial liabilities

9.23

9.74

2,157.74

1,974.21

Valuation technique and significant unobservable inputs:
	This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are
(a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the
financial statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has
classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level
follows underneath the table.
i)	The management assessed the trade receivables, trade payables, loans, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, other
financial assets and other financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of
these instruments.
ii)	The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged
in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and
assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
		

(a)	Management uses its best judgement in estimating the fair value of its financial instruments. However, there are inherent
limitations in any estimation technique. Therefore, for substantially all financial instruments, the fair value estimates
presented above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company could have realised or paid in sale
transactions as of respective dates. As such, fair value of financial instruments subsequent to the reporting dates may
be different from the amounts reported at each reporting date.

		

(b)

		

(c)	The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with banks/financial institutions. Foreign currency forward
contracts are valued using valuation techniques which employs the use of market observable inputs using present
value calculations. The model incorporates various inputs including the deal specific fundamental, market conditions,
maturity period, transaction size, comparable trades, foreign currency spot and forward rates.

		

(d)	Embedded foreign currency are measured similarly to the foreign currency forward contracts. The embedded
derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts which are separated from long-term sales contracts and purchase
contracts where the transaction currency differs from the functional currencies of the involved parties. These contracts
require physical delivery and will be held for the purpose of the delivery of the commodity in accordance with the
buyers’ expected sale requirements. These contracts have embedded foreign exchange derivatives that are required
to be separated.

Lease liabilities are carried at discounted value using incremental borrowing rate.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

231

B

Fair value hierarchy
The following table presents the fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

Amount

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Derivative instruments (refer note 7) - As at March 31, 2024

9.55

Derivative instruments (refer note 7) - As at March 31, 2023

10.61

-

9.55

-

-

10.61

-

Derivative instruments (refer note 18) - As at March 31, 2024

9.23

-

9.23

-

Derivative instruments (refer note 18) - As at March 31, 2023

9.74

-

9.74

-

Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss :

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss :

There have been no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023.

C

Financial risk management

	The Company’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to support its operations. The Company’s principal financial assets include trade
and other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents that derive directly from its operations.
	The Company is exposed to market risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The Company’s senior management
oversees the management of these risks. The Company’s senior management is supported by a Risk management committee
that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Company. The Risk management
committee provides assurance to the Company’s senior management that the Company’s financial risk activities are governed
by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with the
Company’s policies and risk objectives. All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist
teams that have the appropriate skills, experience and supervision. It is the Company’s policy that no trading in derivatives for
speculative purposes may be undertaken. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks,
which are summarised below.

(i)

Market risk

		Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in
market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity
price risk and commodity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, trade payables,
deposits, investments, trade receivables, other financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
		Commodity contracts
		The Company uses commodity future contracts to hedge risk against fluctuation in commodity prices. The following are
outstanding future contracts entered into by the Company.
Commodity

Number of contracts
(Net buy)

Contractual quantity
(Net buy)

As at March 31, 2024

Copper

-

-

As at March 31, 2024

Aluminum

-

-

As at March 31, 2023

Copper

5

17 MT

As at March 31, 2023

Aluminum

4

25 MT

Year

(ii) Foreign currency risk
		Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in
foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the
Company’s operating activities. The Company’s risk management policy is to hedge foreign currency exposures above
certain thresholds.
		The Company operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency transactions.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a
currency that is not Company’s functional currency (INR).

232

Corporate Overview

		

a)

			

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Unhedged foreign currency exposure
The following table analyses the unhedged portion of foreign currency exposure:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

USD

SEK

EUR

CHF

BTN

Others

Receivables
As at March 31, 2024
Foreign Currency (In Crores)

2.53

1.71

0.07

0.31

12.39

9.42

211.32

13.33

5.88

28.36

12.39

13.44

1% increase

2.11

0.13

0.06

0.28

0.12

0.13

1% decrease

(2.11)

(0.13)

(0.06)

(0.28)

(0.12)

(0.13)

Indian rupees (In Crores)
Impact on profit and loss:

As at March 31, 2023
Foreign Currency (In Crores)

1.51

0.94

0.11

0.27

21.52

39.22

123.75

7.42

9.40

24.30

21.52

22.11

1% increase

1.24

0.07

0.09

0.24

0.22

0.22

1% decrease

(1.24)

(0.07)

(0.09)

(0.24)

(0.22)

(0.22)

Particulars

USD

CHF

SEK

EUR

CNY

Others

Indian rupees (In Crores)
Impact on profit and loss:

Payables
As at March 31, 2024
Foreign Currency (In Crores)
Indian rupees (In Crores)

2.74

1.52

16.08

0.70

2.86

19.47

228.94

140.33

125.19

63.08

32.94

10.23

Impact on profit and loss:
1% increase

2.29

1.40

1.25

0.63

0.33

0.10

1% decrease

(2.29)

(1.40)

(1.25)

(0.63)

(0.33)

(0.10)

As at March 31, 2023
Foreign Currency (In Crores)

0.86

0.66

5.67

0.43

1.38

34.53

Indian rupees (In Crores)

70.61

59.00

45.01

38.24

16.49

13.55

Impact on profit and loss:
1% increase

0.71

0.59

0.45

0.38

0.16

0.14

1% decrease

(0.71)

(0.59)

(0.45)

(0.38)

(0.16)

(0.14)

BDT

BTN

LKR

NPR

Foreign Currency (In Crores)

2.90

29.49

5.43

0.53

Indian rupees (In Crores)

2.17

29.49

1.49

0.32

1% increase

0.02

0.29

0.01

0.00

1% decrease

(0.02)

(0.29)

(0.01)

(0.00)

Foreign Currency (In Crores)

4.03

105.19

6.22

0.29

Indian rupees (In Crores)

3.06

105.19

1.55

0.18

1% increase

0.03

1.05

0.02

0.00

1% decrease
						

(0.03)

(1.05)

(0.02)

(0.00)

Particulars

Cash and cash equivalents
As at March 31, 2024

Impact on profit and loss:

As at March 31, 2023

Impact on profit and loss:

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

233

		(b) Forward contracts outstanding:						
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2024

( E in Crores)

Amount in
Foreign
Currency
Crores

( E in Crores)

0.02

2.26

1

0.02

2.18

6

0.36

34.22

4

0.11

9.88

12

0.87

80.99

13

0.38

34.33

118

5.21

437.30

100

4.64

384.07

1

0.11

6.58

-

-

-

1

CHF
EUR
USD
CAD

Currency

March 31, 2023
Number of
Contracts

Number of
Contracts

Amount in
Foreign
Currency
Crores

Exports
GBP

561.35

430.46

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

( E in Crores)

Number of
Contracts

Amount in
Foreign
Currency
Crores

( E in Crores)

0.77

74.54

13

0.72

66.30

0.38

34.85

1

0.03

3.06

31

5.86

47.59

22

3.37

27.53

USD

28

1.50

125.76

7

0.68

56.60

CNY

1

0.14

1.57

2

0.34

4.17

Number of
Contracts

Amount in
Foreign
Currency
Crores

CHF

8

EUR

7

SEK

Currency

Imports

284.31

157.66

(iii) Interest rate risk						
		Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in
market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Company’s outstanding
working capital facility obtained from banks.
		

The exposure of the Company’s borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting year are as follows:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

		

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A. (Rate of Interest - 7.57% (March 31, 2023: 7.13%))

100.00

100.00

JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A. (Rate of Interest - 7.59% (March 31, 2023: 7.19%))

50.00

75.00

Bank of America (Rate of Interest - NA (March 31, 2023: 7.61%))

-

75.00

Deutsche Bank N.A. (Rate of Interest - NA (March 31, 2023: 7.91%))

-

25.00

150.00

275.00

The interest rate is fixed, hence there is no interest rate risk applicable for the Company.

(iv) Credit risk
		Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract,
leading to a financial loss. Financial instruments that are subject to credit risk and concentration thereof principally consist
of loan receivables, trade receivables, derivatives, cash and cash equivalents, bank balances and other financial assets of
the Company, as well as credit exposure to customers.
		The maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of the financial assets. The objective of managing
counterparty credit risk is to prevent losses in financial assets. The Company assesses the credit quality of the counterparties,
taking into account their financial position, past experience and other factors.

234

Corporate Overview

		

a)

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Trade receivables and contract assets

			The Company’s customer profile consists of a large number of customers spread across diverse industries include
public sector enterprises, state owned companies and large private corporates. Accordingly, the Company’s customer
credit risk is low. The Company’s projects business comprises long-term contracts which have an execution period
exceeding one year. General payment terms include mobilisation advance, monthly progress payments with a credit
period ranging from 0 to 90 days and certain retention money to be released at the end of the project. In some cases,
retentions are substituted with bank/corporate guarantees.
			The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivable. Under
the simplified approach, the Company tracks changes in credit risk. Further, it recognizes impairment loss allowance
based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from initial recognition.
			The Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on the portfolio of trade receivables.
The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivable
and is adjusted for forward looking estimates. At year end, the historical observed default rates are updated and
changes in the forward-looking estimates are analyzed.
			Individual receivables which are known to be uncollectible are written off by reducing the carrying amount of trade
receivable and the amount of the loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss within other expenses.
			Specific allowance for loss has also been provided by the management based on expected recovery on
individual customers.
			

The provision provided in books for trade receivables overdue:

			Reconciliation of loss allowance						
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Balance at the beginning of the year

212.39

212.55

Add: Additional ECL/ specific provision

13.06

25.09

Less: Utilisation/ reversal of ECL/ specific provision

13.91

25.25

Balance at the end of the year

211.54

212.39

			Further in addition to the above, loss allowance on contract assets amounts to C 10.00 crores (March 31, 2023:
C 9.27 crores).
			Management does not expect any significant loss from non-performance by counterparties on credit granted during
the financial year that has not been provided for.
		

b)

Other than trade receivables and contract assets

			Management believes that the parties from which the receivables are due have strong capacity to meet the obligations
and risk of default is negligible or nil, accordingly only specific allowance is made and no expected credit loss has
been recorded.
		C)	Credit risk from balances with bank and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department in
accordance with the Company’s policy.

(v) Liquidity Risk
		Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk
management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The
Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of
funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities to meet obligations when due and to close out market
positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Company maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining
availability under committed credit lines.
		The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted
payments.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

235

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

On demand

Less than 1 year

More than 1 year

Total

As at March 31, 2024

Non-derivatives
Borrowings

-

150.00

-

150.00

Other financial liabilities

-

120.83

4.28

125.11

Lease liabilities

-

15.83

70.45

86.28

Trade payables

-

1,809.72

-

1,809.72

Total non-derivative liabilities

-

2,096.38

74.73

2,171.11
4.90

Derivatives (net settled) (refer note 18)
Embedded derivatives

-

4.90

-

Foreign currency forward contracts

-

4.33

-

4.33

Total derivative liabilities

-

9.23

-

9.23

As at March 31, 2023

Non-derivatives
Borrowings

-

275.00

-

275.00

Other financial liabilities

-

113.34

2.20

115.54

Lease liabilities

-

16.45

66.51

82.96

Trade payables

-

1,514.62

-

1,514.62

Total non-derivative liabilities

-

1,919.41

68.71

1,988.12
6.38

Derivatives (net settled) (refer note 18)
Embedded derivatives

-

6.38

-

Foreign currency forward contracts

-

3.36

-

3.36

Total derivative liabilities

-

9.74

-

9.74

34 Capital management
	For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital, securities premium and all other
equity reserves attributable to the shareholders of the Company. Net debt includes borrowings, trade payables, lease liabilities
and other financial liabilities net of cash and cash equivalents. The primary objective of the Company’s capital management is
to maximise the shareholder value.
	The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the
requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend
payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Company monitors capital using a gearing
ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt.
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Borrowings
Trade payables
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
Net Debt

150.00
1,809.72
63.68
134.34
128.04
2,029.70

275.00
1,514.62
59.31
125.28
163.19
1,811.02

Total equity

1,359.87

1,215.31

Capital and net debt

3,389.57

3,026.33

60%

60%

Gearing ratio

	In order to achieve this overall objective, the Company’s capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure that it
meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure requirements. No
changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 2024.

236

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

35 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
Contingent liabilities (Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Other matters

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

0.35

47.44

0.35

47.44

The Company does not have any contingent assets at the balance sheet date.				
a)	The Company is contesting certain tax and other demands and the management believes that its position will likely be
upheld in the various appellate authorities/ courts. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of this proceeding
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position.				
b)	In respect of the above contingent liabilities, the future cash outflows are determinable only on receipt of judgement pending
at various forums/ authorities. 				
c)	The Supreme court of India in the month of February 2019 had passed a judgement relating to definition of wages under
the Provident Fund Act, 1952. The management is of the view that there are interpretative challenges on the application of
the judgement retrospectively. Based on the legal advice and in the absence of reliable measurement of the provision for
earlier periods, the Company has made a provision for provident fund contribution pursuant to the judgement only from
the date of Supreme Court Order. The Company will evaluate its position and update its provision, if required, on receiving
further clarity on the subject, the Company does not expect any material impact of the same.
d)	The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment benefits
received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. However, the date
on which the Code will come into effect has not been notified. The Company will assess the impact of the Code when it
comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period the Code becomes effective.
e)	The Company has outstanding guarantee / bonds amounting to C 322.70 crores in connection with import of duty-free
capital and other goods made by the Company. The Company was granted Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG)
licenses / Advance Authorizations (“Licenses”) secured by ABB India Limited prior to the effective date of demerger of
Power Grids business pursuant to order of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) vide its order dated November 27, 2019
towards such duty-free imports with a commitment against future export obligations. As at March 31, 2024, the Company
is in the process of meeting the export obligations amounting to C 9.12 crores for certain Licenses. Further, for certain
Licenses where duty saved amounts to C 158.01 crores the Company is awaiting Export Obligation Discharge Certificate
(EODC) and has also received deficiency letters/show case notices/orders as applicable. The Company is in the process
of submitting necessary documents and make necessary submissions to appropriate authorities, as applicable. The
management, based on an internal assessment and external advise is of the view that EODC will be received after making
suitable representations and submission of necessary documents. Therefore, the Company does not foresee any material
financial exposure on the Company. Accordingly, no adjustment has been made to the financial statements in this regard.
		Further, post demerger, the Company has been granted Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG) licenses / Advance
Authorizations (“Licenses”) towards duty-free imports with a commitment against future export obligations. As at March
31, 2024, the Company has outstanding guarantee / bonds amounting to C 59.52 crores in connection with such import
of duty-free capital and other goods made by the Company and the Company is in the process of meeting the export
obligations amounting to C 167.83 crores for certain Licenses. Further, for certain Licenses where duty saved amounts to
C 0.37 crores the Company is awaiting Export Obligation Discharge Certificate (EODC).

36 Commitments
(a) Capital commitments		
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on account of capital commitments
and not provided for (net of advances)

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

55.56

26.71

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

237

(b) Leases
		The Company has lease contracts for building, leasehold land and vehicles used in its operations. Leases of building have
lease terms between 2 and 15 years, land is 98 years and motor vehicles have lease terms between 4 and 5 years. The
Company’s obligations under its leases are secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets. Generally, the Company is
restricted from assigning and subleasing the leased assets and some contracts require the Company to maintain certain
financial ratios. Some of the lease agreements have escalation clause ranging from 0% to 7% (March 31, 2023: 0% to 7%).
There are several lease contracts that include extension and termination options and variable lease payments.
		The Company also has certain leases of machinery/computer equipments with lease terms of 12 months or less and with
low value. The Company applies the ‘short-term lease’ and ‘lease of low-value assets’ recognition exemptions for these
leases. The Company applied a single discount rate to leases of similar economic environment with a similar end date and
excluded the initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application.
		Refer note 3 for carrying value of right-of-use assets recognised on date of transition and the movements thereof during
the year ended March 31, 2024.
		

Below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the year:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Opening lease liabilities

59.31

65.00

Additions

19.16

8.51

Accretion of interest

4.32

4.24

Payments

(18.49)

(17.84)

Deletions

(0.62)

(0.60)

Closing lease liabilities

63.68

59.31

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

		

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Current

11.61

12.69

Non-current

52.07

46.62

The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss for the year ended:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets

16.00

16.09

Interest expense on lease liabilities

4.32

4.24

Expense relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
(included in other expenses)

4.13

3.68

24.45

24.01

		The Company had total cash outflows for leases of C 22.62 crores for the year ended March 31, 2024 (C 21.52 crores for
the year ended March 31, 2023).							
		

The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 33(C)(v).

		

The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 6% to 9% per annum.

37 Segment information
	An operating segment is a component that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses,
including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the other components, whose operating results are
regularly reviewed by the Company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) to make decisions about resource allocation and
performance assessment and for which discrete financial information is available. The Company is engaged in the business
relating to products, projects and services for electricity transmission and related activities. Accordingly, the Company’s activities
and business is reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker from an overall business perspective, rather than
reviewing its products/services as individual standalone components. Thus, the Company has only one operating segment,
and has no reportable segment in accordance with Ind AS- 108 ‘Operating Segments’.

238

Corporate Overview

(i)

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

The entity wide disclosures as required by Ind AS-108 are as follows:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Description

Sale of products

3,644.34

3,528.74

Revenue from execution of contracts for projects and services

1,319.36

711.51

132.34

94.25

Sale of services
Other operating revenues

141.45

134.01

Revenue from operations

5,237.49

4,468.51

(ii) Geographical information
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Revenue from customers

India

3,954.54

3,279.89

Other countries (refer note 37 (iii))

1,282.95

1,188.62

5,237.49

4,468.51

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

774.94

763.77

-

0.13

774.94

763.90

Non-current assets**

India
Other countries

** Non current assets does not include deferred tax assets, financial assets and non-current tax assets.

(iii)	Adani Electricity Mumbai Infra Limited accounted for more than 10% of Company’s total revenue from operations for the year
ended March 31, 2024 and no customer individually accounted for more than 10% of the revenues for the year ended March
31, 2023.
	Hitachi Energy USA Inc and Hitachi Energy Sweden AB accounted for more than 10% of Company’s total export revenue from
operations for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023.

38 Revenue from contracts with customers 				
a)

Disaggregated revenue information
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Revenue by geography

India

3,954.54

3,279.89

Other countries (refer note 37 (iii))

1,282.95

1,188.62

5,237.49

4,468.51

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

Revenue by offerings/ timing

Point in time
Sale of products
Other operating revenue (Scrap sales and others)

3,644.34

3,528.74

36.71

28.13

1,319.36

711.51

132.34

94.25

Period over time
Revenue from execution of contracts for projects and services
Sale of services
Other operating revenue (Other than scrap sales and others)

104.74

105.88

5,237.49

4,468.51

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

239

b)

Contract balances
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

1,521.71

1,527.77

Advance from customer (refer note 21)

881.61

468.73

Billing in excess of contract revenue (refer note 21)

42.58

41.80

Contract assets (refer note 15)

748.41

177.32

3,194.31

2,215.62

Trade receivables (refer note 12)

		A contract asset is an entity’s right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has transferred to a
customer and hence is not a financial instrument. In Company’s contracts with customers, since the contractual right to
payment arises only upon achievement of milestones specified in the contract, it is believed that the performance completed
until the achievement of a particular milestone should be recorded as a contract asset under non-financial assets.
		
During the year, C 140.72 crores (March 31, 2023 C 95.55 crores) from opening balance of contract assets has been
reclassified to trade receivables upon billing to customers on completion of milestones.
		During the year, the Company has recognised revenue of C 39.60 crores arising from opening billing in excess of contract
revenue as of April 01, 2023 (April 01, 2022 is C 77.31 crores).

c)	No significant adjustments are expected in contract price for revenue recognised in statement
of profit and loss.
d)
		

Performance Obligation
Information about the Company’s performance obligations are summarised below:

		i.)	Long term (Construction type) contracts - The long term contracts are ordinarily presumed to consist of combined
obligations which are not distinct in the context of the contract (i.e., single performance obligation). This is highly
attributed to the long-term construction nature of the projects, whereby deliverables are typically highly interrelated
and combined. The typical scope of turnkey contracts arrangements includes engineering, manufacturing, shipment,
delivery installation, testing, erection and commissioning and civil works. Although there are several components to
the overall scope of the contract, the turnkey contracts are generally considered one performance obligation.
		ii.)	Products manufacturing and erection, commissioning and installation contracts - These contracts
comprising of two performance obligations of supply of products and erection and commissioning thereof. When
the manufacturing stage is complete, factory acceptance testing procedures are performed to ensure the equipment
meets customer specifications and may involve the customer physically observing the testing procedures. Revenue
from contracts, where the performance obligations are satisfied over time and other consideration, is recognized as
per the percentage of completion method. The Company uses the percentage of completion method based on the
costs expended to the date as a proportion of the total costs to be expended.
			Company as part of its contracts, provides warranties of the equipment for defects arising out of poor workmanship,
inferior material or manufacturing. Such warranty provided is in the nature of assurance warranty and is not accounted
for as a separated performance obligation.

e)

Remaining performance obligations

		The remaining performance obligation disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be
recognized as at the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the Company expects to recognize these
amounts in revenue.
		The aggregate value of performance obligations that are completely or partially unsatisfied as at March 31, 2024 is C
7,229.53 crores (March 31, 2023 is C 7,070.91 crores). The conversion to revenue is highly dependent on meeting the
delivery schedules, contractual terms and conditions with customers, availability of customer sites, changes/ variation in
scope/ prices etc. In view of these, it is not practical to define the accurate percentage of conversion to revenue. However,
it will be in a range of 1 to 3 years.

f)	There was no revenue recognised in the current year ended March 31, 2024 from performance obligations satisfied (or
partially satisfied) in previous periods on account of significant changes in transaction price.

240

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

39 Related party disclosures
Party where control exists:
Hitachi Limited, Tokyo, Japan (Ultimate Holding Company)
Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland (Holding Company)
Entities under common control
Name of the Fellow subsidiaries:
Hitachi Energy Chongqing Transformer Co., Ltd., Chongqing, China
(Formerly known as ABB Chongqing Transformer Company Ltd.,
Chongqing, China)
Hitachi Energy Engineering Technologies Safat, Kuwait
(Formerly known as ABB Engg. Technologies Co. (KSCC),
Safat, Kuwait)
Hitachi Energy Hefei Transformer Co.,Ltd., Anhui, China
(Formerly known as ABB Hefei Transformer Co. Ltd., Hefei, China)
Hitachi Energy High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen) Company
Limited, China
(Formerly know as ABB High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen)
Company Ltd., Xiamen, China)
Hitachi Energy High Voltage Switchgear Co., Ltd., Beijing, Beijing,
China
(Formerly known as ABB High Voltage Switchgear Co., Ltd.,
Beijing, Beijing, China)
Hitachi Energy Jiangsu High Voltage Apparatus Co.,Ltd., Jiangsu,
China
(Formerly known as ABB Jiangsu Jingke Instrument Transformer
Co., Ltd., Suqian, Jiangsu, China)
Hitachi Energy Shanghai Power System Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Shanghai, China
(Formerly known as ABB Shanghai Power System Engineering
Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China)
Hitachi Energy Shanghai Electrical Transformer Co., Ltd,
Shanghai, China
(Formerly known as ABB Shanghai Transformer Co., Ltd.,
Shanghai, China)
Hitachi Energy Xiamen Surge Arrestor Co.,Ltd China
(ABB Xiamen Surge Arrestor Co., Ltd., Xiamen, China)
Hitachi Energy Xi'an Power Capacitor Co.,Ltd., Shanxi, China
(Formerly known as ABB Xi'an Power Capacitor Company
Limited, Xi'an, China)
Hitachi Energy Philippines, Inc., NCR, Philippines
(Formerly known asABB Power Grids Philippines, Inc., Paranaque
City, Philippines)
Hitachi Energy (China) Ltd., Beijing, China
Hitachi Energy (Thailand) Limited, Bangkok, Thailand
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids (Thailand) Limited)
Hitachi Energy Argentina S.A.U., Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos
Aires, Argentina
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Argentina S.A.U.)
Hitachi Energy Australia Pty Ltd, Australia
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Australia Pty Ltd)
Hitachi Energy Belgium N.V., Zaventem, Belgium
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Belgium N.V.)
Hitachi Energy Brasil Ltda, Guarulhos, Brazil
(Formerly known as ABB Ltda.)
Hitachi Energy Bulgaria EOOD, Sevlievo, Bulgaria
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Bulgaria EOOD)
Hitachi Energy Canada Inc., Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Canada Inc)
Hitachi Energy Chile S.A., Santiago, Chile
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Chile SA)
Hitachi Energy Colombia Ltda, Bogotá, Colombia
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Colombia Ltda)
Hitachi Energy Czech Republic s.r.o., Trutnov, Czech Republic
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Czech Republic s.r.o)
Hitachi Energy d.o.o., Zagreb, Croatia
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Zagreb d.o.o.)
Hitachi Energy Denmark A/S, Skovlunde, Denmark
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Denmark A/S)

Hitachi Energy Finland Oy, Vaasa, Finland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Finland Oy)
Hitachi Energy France, Les Ulis, France
Hitachi Energy Germany AG, Mannheim, Germany
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Germany AG)
Hitachi Energy Greece Single Member Societe Anonyme,
Metamorphossis Attica, Greece
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Greece Single Member SA)
Hitachi Energy Holdings Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB PG Power Grids Ltd)
Hitachi Energy Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong, Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region of China
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Hong Kong Limited, Hong
Kong Special Administrative Region of China)
Hitachi Energy Hungary Kft, Budapest, Hungary
Hitachi Energy International Marketing FZ-LLC, DUBAI, United
Arab Emirates
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids International Marketing FZLC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates)
Hitachi Energy Ireland Limited, Dublin, Ireland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Ireland Limited)
Hitachi Energy Italy S.p.A., Milano, Italy
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Italy S.p.A.)
Hitachi Energy Japan Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Japan, Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy Korea Ltd., Seoul, Korea, Republic of
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Korea Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy L.L.C, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids LLC)
Hitachi Energy Limited / Jordan, Amman, Jordan
Hitachi Energy LLC, Muscat, Oman., Oman
(Formerly known as ABB PG Muscat LLC)
Hitachi Energy Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
(Formerly known as ABB Contracting Company Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., Selangor, Malaysia
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Malaysia Sdn Bhd)
Hitachi Energy México, S.A. de C.V., San luis Potosi, Mexico
Hitachi Energy New Zealand Limited, Auckland, New Zealand
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids New Zealand Limited)
Hitachi Energy Norway AS, Oslo, Norway
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Norway AS)
Hitachi Energy Peru S.A., Lima, Peru
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Peru S. A.)
Hitachi Energy Poland Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Poland Sp. z o.o.)
Hitachi Energy Portugal, S.A., Oeiras, Portugal
(Formerly known as ABB Power Systems Portugal)
Hitachi Energy Romania S.R.L., Bucharest, Romania
(Formerly known as ABB SRL)
Hitachi Energy Services Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland
(Formerly known as ABB PG Business Services Sp. z o.o.)
Hitachi Energy Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Singapore Pte. Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy Solutions FZCO, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Solutions FZCO)
Hitachi Energy South Africa (Pty) Ltd, Johannesburg, South Africa
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids South Africa (Pty) Ltd)
Hitachi Energy Spain, S.A.U., Madrid, Spain
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Spain, S.A.)
Hitachi Energy Sucursal Panamá, S.A., Panama, Panama
(Formerly known as Sucursal Panama de ABB SA)
Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)
Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd, Baden, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd) (merged with
Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland w.e.f October 01, 2023)

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

241

Hitachi Energy Systems L.L.C., Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Systems LLC)
Hitachi Energy Taiwan Co., Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan (Chinese Taipei)
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Co., Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy Technologies L L C, Doha, Qatar
Hitachi Energy Technologies W.L.L., Bahrain, Bahrain
Hitachi Energy Technology S.A.E, Cairo, Egypt
(Formerly known as ABB for Power Grids S.A.E)
Hitachi Energy Technology Services Private Limited, Bangalore,
India
(Formerly known as ABB Power Technology Services Private
Limited)
Hitachi Energy The Netherlands B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids The Netherlands B.V.)
Hitachi Energy Trading S.A.E, Cairo, Egypt.
(Formerly known as ABB Holding for Power Grids S.A.E)
Hitachi Energy Transformers S.A.E, Fifth Settlement, New Cairo,
Egypt
(Formerly known as ABB Transformers S.A.E.)
Hitachi Energy Turkey Elektrik Sanayi Anonim irketi, İstanbul,
Turkey
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Turkey Elektrik Sanayi
Anonim Şirketi)
Hitachi Energy UK Limited, Stone, United Kingdom
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids UK Limited)
Hitachi Energy USA Inc., Raleigh, NC, United States
(Formerly known as ABB Enterprise Software Inc.)
Hitachi Energy Vietnam Company Limited, Hanoi, Vietnam
(Formerly known as ABB Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy Slovakia, s. r. o., Bratislava, Slovakia
Hitachi Hi-Rel Power Electronics Private Limited
Hitachi Systems India Private Limited, India
(Formerly known as Hitachi Systems Micro Clinic Private Limited)
Hitachi T&D Systems Asia Pte. Ltd, Singapore
Johnson Controls-Hitachi Air Conditioning India Limited
Nanjing SAC Automation Co. Ltd., Nanjing, Jiangsu, China
(Formerly known as Nanjing SAC Power Grid Automation Co.
Ltd.)
PT. Hitachi Sakti Energy Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia
(Formerly known as PT. ABB Power Grids Indonesia)
Pucaro Elektro-Isolierstoffe GmbH, Roigheim, Germany
Hitachi Asia Ltd, Singapore
Trasfor SA, Monteggio, Switzerland, Monteggio, Switzerland
Arteche Hitachi Energy Gas Instrument Transformers S. L.,
Vitoria, Spain
Hitachi Energy S.A., Panama, Panama
ABB (China) Ltd., Beijing, China*
ABB (Private) Ltd., Harare, Zimbabwe*
ABB (Hong Kong) Ltd., Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region of China*
ABB AB, Västerås, Sweden*

ABB AG, Mannheim, Germany*
ABB AS, Fornebu, Norway*
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland*
ABB Australia Pty Limited, Moorebank, NSW, Australia*
ABB Beijing Switchgear Limited, BeiJing, China*
ABB Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia, Bulgaria*
ABB Electrical Equipment (Xiamen) Co., Ltd., Xiamen, China*
ABB Electrical Industries Co. Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia*
ABB Electrification Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden*
ABB Elektrik Sanayi A.S., Istanbul, Turkey*
ABB E-mobility B.V., Delft, Netherlands (Formerly known as ABB
B.V.)*
ABB Global Business Services And Contracting India Private
Limited, Bangalore, India
(Formerly known as ABB Substations Contracting India Private
Limited)*
ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited, Bangalore,
India*
ABB Global Marketing FZ LLC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates*
ABB Inc., Cary, NC, United States*
ABB Inc., Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada*
ABB India Limited, Bangalore, India*
ABB Industries (L.L.C.), Dubai, United Arab Emirates*
ABB Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland*
ABB Limited, Dhaka, Bangladesh*
ABB Limited/Jordan LLC., Amman, Jordan*
ABB Ltd., Kampala, Uganda*
ABB Ltd., Lusaka, Zambia*
ABB Management Services Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland*
ABB Mexico S.A. de C.V., San Luis Potosi SLP, Mexico*
ABB N.V., Zaventem, Belgium*
ABB Oy, Helsinki, Finland*
ABB Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore*
ABB S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina*
ABB S.A., Lima, Peru*
ABB S.A., Santiago, Chile*
ABB S.p.A., Milan, Italy*
ABB s.r.o., Prague, Czech Republic*
ABB SARL, Kinshasa Gombe, Congo, Democratic Republic of
the Congo*
ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland*
ABB Shanghai Free Trade Zone Industrial Co., Ltd., Shanghai,
China*
ABB South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa*
ABB Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland*
ABB Technology SA, Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire*
ABB Transmission & Distribution Limited LLC, Abu Dhabi, United
Arab Emirates*
ABB, Inc., Paranaque, Metro Manila, Philippines*
Asea Brown Boveri S.A., Madrid, Spain*
PT ABB Sakti Industri, Jakarta, Indonesia*

Name of the Fellow associates:
Linxon India Private Limited

Linxon India Engineering Private Limited

Key managerial personnel :
(a)

Managing Director & CEO

Nuguri Venu

(b)

Non-Executive Director

Achim Michael Braun

(c)

Non-Executive cum Independent Directors

Akila Krishnakumar

Ismo Antero Haka
Mukesh Hari Butani
Meena Ganesh (appointed w.e.f. May 24, 2023)
Nishi Vasudeva (resigned w.e.f. May 24, 2023)
(d)

Chief Financial Officer

Ajay Singh

(e)

Company Secretary

Poovanna C Ammatanda

242

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

Transactions with related parties 									
Transaction value in excess of 10% with a fellow subsidiary has been individually disclosed below. All other cases have been grouped
and disclosed as 'other fellow subsidiaries'.
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

i)

Revenue from operations
Ultimate Holding Company
- Hitachi Limited, Tokyo, Japan

28.51

5.61

Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland

71.77

20.53

270.50

243.00

218.39

128.28

615.50

635.26

32.11
1,236.78

24.13
1,056.81

0.33

-

0.14
-

0.07
0.11

-

0.05
0.04
0.06

0.47

0.33

84.18

-

252.75

87.58

109.08

86.28

95.22
11.00
179.76
731.99

59.54
131.16
364.56

99.65

-

90.50

146.22

0.56
190.71

1.13
147.35

Fellow Subsidiaries
- Hitachi Energy USA Inc., Raleigh, NC, United States
(Formerly known as ABB Enterprise Software Inc.)
- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)
- Other fellow subsidiaries
Fellow Associates
- Linxon India Private Limited

ii)

iii)

Other income
Fellow Subsidiaries
- Hitachi Energy South Africa (Pty) Ltd, Johannesburg, South Africa
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids South Africa (Pty) Ltd)
- ABB India Limited; Bangalore, India*1
- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)
- ABB S.p.A., Milan, Italy*
- ABB Limited, Dhaka, Bangladesh*
- Other fellow subsidiaries

Purchases of raw materials, components, project items, stock-in-trade and sub-contracting
expenses
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland
Fellow Subsidiaries
- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)
- Hitachi Energy Vietnam Company Limited, Hanoi, Vietnam
(Formerly known as ABB Ltd.)
- Hitachi Energy Brasil Ltda, Guarulhos, Brazil (Formerly known as ABB Ltda.)
- ABB India Limited; Bangalore, India*1
- Other fellow subsidiaries

iv)

Expenditure on royalty and technology fees
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland
Fellow Subsidiaries
- Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd, Baden, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd)
- Other fellow subsidiaries

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

243

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

v)

Expenditure on information technology, engineering, management, legal and professional
fees and other services
Ultimate Holding Company
- Hitachi Limited, Tokyo, Japan

0.03

-

63.59

47.73

- Hitachi Energy Holdings Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB PG Power Grids Ltd)

74.72

39.26

- Hitachi Energy Technology Services Private Limited, Bangalore, India
(Formerly known as ABB Power Technology Services Private Limited)

56.98

43.14

- ABB Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland*

5.43

16.31

- ABB India Limited Bangalore, India*1

3.10

16.03

Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland
Fellow Subsidiaries

- Other fellow subsidiaries

vi)

35.85

36.41

239.70

198.88

-

0.02

10.77

0.97

- Hitachi Energy Holdings Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB PG Power Grids Ltd)

6.98

0.02

- Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd, Baden, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd)

5.90

14.93

- ABB India Limited Bangalore, India*1

3.03

0.86

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

2.16

6.20

- Other fellow subsidiaries

4.93

1.97

-

2.21

33.77

27.18

0.05

-

Expenses recovered from group companies
Ultimate Holding Company
- Hitachi Limited, Tokyo, Japan
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland
Fellow Subsidiaries

Fellow Associates
- Linxon India Private Limited

vii)

Other capital expenditure
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland
Fellow Subsidiaries
- Hitachi Energy South Africa (Pty) Ltd, Johannesburg, South Africa

4.91

-

-Hitachi Energy High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen) Company Limited, China
(Formerly know as ABB High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen) Company Ltd., Xiamen, China)

-

5.67

- Hitachi Energy Germany AG, Mannheim, Germany
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Germany AG)

-

1.90

0.22

1.54

5.18

9.11

- Other fellow subsidiaries

244

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023

viii) Reimbursement of capital expenditure
Holding Company
-

28.50

10.81

9.54

Short term employee benefits

10.74

7.61

Post employment benefits#

0.45

0.40

Directors' Sitting fees

0.24

0.29

Commission to Directors

1.16

1.16

Total

12.59

9.46

- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland (refer note 3(iii))
ix)

Dividend paid
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland

x)

Remuneration to key managerial personnel
The remuneration of key management personnel and a relative of key management personnel of the
company are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in Ind AS 24 Related party
disclosures
Particulars

# Does not include gratuity and compensated absences as these are provided in the books of accounts on the basis of actuarial
	
valuation for the Company as a whole and hence individual amount cannot be determined.

xi)	The back-to-back guarantee issued to Linxon India Private Limited outstanding as at March 31, 2024 is C Nil (March 31, 2023 C

3.80 crores)

Amount due to / from related parties
 alances in excess of 10% with a fellow subsidiary has been individually disclosed below. All other cases have been grouped and
B
disclosed as ‘other fellow subsidiaries’.
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

i)

As at
March 31, 2024

As at
March 31, 2023

0.29

0.01

45.24

8.03

-Hitachi Energy USA Inc., Raleigh, NC, United States
(Formerly known as ABB Enterprise Software Inc.)

47.73

55.50

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

30.88

19.60

-PT. Hitachi Sakti Energy Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia
(Formerly known as PT. ABB Power Grids Indonesia)

28.35

15.38

Trade receivables
Ultimate Holding Company
- Hitachi Limited, Tokyo, Japan
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland
Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB India Limited, Bangalore, India*1
- Other fellow subsidiaries

-

66.20

165.92

227.16

Fellow Associates
- Linxon India Private Limited

22.17

13.68

340.58

405.56

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

245

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

ii)

As at
March 31, 2024

As at
March 31, 2023

0.05

-

16.63

-

- ABB India Limited Bangalore, India*1

-

4.79

- Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd, Baden,Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd)”

-

6.54

Other financial assets
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland
Fellow Subsidiaries
- Hitachi Energy Holdings Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB PG Power Grids Ltd)

- Other fellow subsidiaries

iii)

1.34

0.73

18.02

12.06

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

41.12

0.57

-Hitachi Energy Greece Single Member Societe Anonyme, Metamorphossis Attica, Greece
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Greece Single Member SA)

26.68

-

- Hitachi Energy Brasil Ltda, Guarulhos, Brazil (Formerly known as ABB Ltda.)

12.84

-

Other current assets
Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB India Limited, Bangalore, India*1

-

5.95

0.90

1.25

81.54

7.77

148.24

0.12

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

142.01

51.36

- Hitachi Energy Brasil Ltda, Guarulhos, Brazil
(Formerly known as ABB Ltda.)

95.26

0.17

- ABB India Limited, Bangalore, India*1

-

95.46

- Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd, Baden, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd)

-

47.33

- Hitachi Energy Technology Services Private Limited, Bangalore, India
(Formerly known as ABB Power Technology Services Private Limited)

41.73

26.95

- Hitachi Energy Holdings Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB PG Power Grids Ltd)

9.39

30.38

- Other fellow subsidiaries

77.68

70.46

- Other fellow subsidiaries

iv)

Trade payables
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland
Fellow Subsidiaries

Fellow Associates
- Linxon India Private Limited

246

0.10

1.08

514.41

323.31

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Statutory Reports

Financial Statements

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

v)

As at
March 31, 2024

As at
March 31, 2023

0.58

-

-Hitachi Energy Italy S.p.A., Milano, Italy
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Italy S.p.A.)

0.13

-

-Hitachi Energy High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen) Company Limited, China (Formerly know as ABB
High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen) Company Ltd., Xiamen, china)

0.13

0.13

-

33.49

Other financial liabilities
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland
Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB India Limited, Bangalore, India*1
- Other fellow subsidiaries

vi)

0.06

0.36

0.90

33.98

9.79

9.79

14.44

24.93

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

50.40

-

- Other fellow subsidiaries

16.82

12.77

0.24

0.02

91.69

47.51

Other current liabilities
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Ltd, Zürich, Switzerland
Fellow Subsidiaries
- Hitachi Energy South Africa (Pty) Ltd, Johannesburg, South Africa
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids South Africa (Pty) Ltd)

Fellow Associates
- Linxon India Private Limited

1 Pursuant to demerger of Power Grid business from ABB India Limited (‘ABB’), as detailed in note 16(g), the Company has accounted
sales and purchases towards the contracts yet to be novated by the Company with customers and vendors. The aforesaid sales
and purchases has been included in the revenue from operations and cost of sales of the Company. The receivables and payables
on account of the same has been included in trade receivables and payables respectively.

* During the year, ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd, ABB Switzerland Ltd, and ABB Ltd have been reclassified from ‘Promoter/Promoter
Group’ to ‘Public Category’ in the shareholding of the Company with effect from October 6, 2023 basis the necessary approvals
from the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited (collectively referred to as the “Stock Exchanges”) vide their
respective letters dated October 6, 2023. Accordingly, ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd, ABB Switzerland Ltd, ABB Ltd and their group
companies ceased to be related party w.e.f October 6, 2023.
Also refer sl. no. xi of transactions with related parties.

Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions.
Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.

Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

247

40 Corporate social responsibility expenses
	As per the Section 135 of the Companies Act 2013 (‘Act’), the Board shall ensure that the Company spends, in every financial
year, at least two per cent of the average of the net profits of the three immediately preceding financial years, in pursuance of
its Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) Policy. Hence, the Company falls within the ambit of Section 135 of the Act and is
required to contribute the amount stipulated under the aforesaid provisions of the Act.
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

For the year ended
March 31, 2024

For the year ended
March 31, 2023

a)

Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year

3.68

4.25

b)

Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year

3.68

4.25

c)

Amount spent during the year ended on March 31, 2024:
In cash

Yet to be paid in cash

Total

-

-

-

1.51

2.17

3.68

In cash

Yet to be paid in cash

Total

d)

e)

i)

Construction/acquisition of any assets

ii)

On purposes other than (i) above

Amount spent during the year ended on March 31, 2023:
i)

Construction/acquisition of any assets

ii)

On purposes other than (i) above

-

-

-

1.63

2.62

4.25

March 31, 2024

March 31, 2023

Details related to spent/ unspent obligations:
i)

Contribution to Public Trust

ii)

Contribution to Charitable Trust

iii)

Amount yet to be paid in cash in relation to:

- Ongoing project
- Other than ongoing project

f)

With Company

In separate CSR
unspent account

Amount required
to be spent
during the year

2.17

0.45

3.68

Amount spent during the year

2.62

-

-

3.68

4.25

Closing balance

From Company’s
bank account

With Company

In separate CSR
unspent account

1.51

0.46

2.17

2.16

Nature of CSR activities:
i.

Promote gender equality and empowering of women in engineering workforce

		

ii.

Endorse Education, employability & healthcare

		

iii.

Social impact projects

iv.

Support national disaster management and other government initiatives

v.

Aid in sustainable development goals

248

2.17

From separate
CSR
unspent account

		

		

1.63

Details of ongoing project
Opening balance

g)

1.51

Corporate Overview

Integrated Report

Financial Statements

Statutory Reports

41 Ratios
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year
ended March 31,
2024

For the year
ended March 31,
2023

% change

Current Liabilities

1.16

1.16

0.00%

Short term borrowings

Shareholder’s Equity

0.11

0.23

-51.25%

Debt Service
Coverage ratio

Earnings for debt service = Net profit after
taxes + Non-cash operating expenses +
Finance costs

Debt service = Interest &
Lease payments + Long
term principal repayments

5.31

4.37

21.52%

Return on Equity
ratio2

Net Profit after taxes

Average Shareholder’s
Equity

0.13

0.08

59.01%

Inventory
Turnover ratio

Cost of goods sold

Average Inventory

3.99

3.75

6.31%

Trade Receivable Net credit sales = Gross credit sales Turnover Ratio
sales return

Average Trade Receivable

3.44

3.04

13.07%

Trade Payable
Turnover Ratio

Net credit purchases = Gross credit
purchases - purchase return

Average Trade Payables

2.70

2.51

7.50%

Net Capital
Turnover Ratio

Net sales = Total sales - sales return

Working capital = Current
assets – Current liabilities

9.76

10.74

-9.13%

Net Profit ratio3

Net Profit

Net sales = Total sales sales return

0.03

0.02

50.00%

Return on Capital
Employed2

Earnings before interest and taxes

Capital Employed = Tangible
Net Worth + Total Debt +
Deferred Tax Liability

0.18

0.12

54.83%

Return on
Investment

Interest (Finance Income)

Investment

N.A

N.A

N.A

Ratio

Numerator

Denominator

Current ratio

Current Assets

Debt- Equity
Ratio1

Note:
1. Debt equity ratio variance as compared to previous year is on account of reduction in total debt during the year.
2.	Return on equity ratio and Return on capital employed variance as compared to previous year is mainly due to increase in profits due to
increase in revenues.
3. Net profit ratio variance as compared to previous year is on account of improvement in operational profit margin.

42	The Company is in the process of conducting a transfer pricing study as required by the transfer pricing regulations under the
Income Tax Act, 1961 (‘regulations’) to determine whether the transactions entered during the year ended March 31, 2024,
with the associated enterprises were undertaken at “arm’s length price”. The management confirms that all the transactions
with associate enterprises are undertaken at negotiated prices on usual commercial terms and is confident that the aforesaid
regulations will not have any impact on the financial statements, particularly on the amount of tax expense and that of provision
for taxation.

43	Additional regulatory information/disclosures to the extent applicable to the Company
	- No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind
of funds by the company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding,
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee,
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	- There are no funds received by the Company from any person or entity, including foreign entities (“Funding Party”) with the
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest
in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”)
or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	- No transactions to report against Benami Property held under Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and
rules made thereunder.
	- The Company does not have any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or
any other relevant provisions of the Income tax Act, 1961.
- The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government authority.
Hitachi Energy India Limited | Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

249

44	The Company has used an accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail
(edit log) and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software, except that audit
trail feature is not enabled at the database level insofar as it relates to the accounting software. Further no instance of audit trail
feature being tampered with was noted in respect of the accounting software.

45 Subsequent events
	The Board of directors have recommended dividend of C 4/- per equity share, which translates to a total dividend of C 16.95
crores, for the year ended March 31, 2024. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the
shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.

46	Certain amounts (currency value or percentages) shown in the various tables and paragraphs included in the financial statements
have been rounded off or truncated as deemed appropriate by the management of the Company.

As per our report of even date
For S.R.Batliboi & Associates LLP		
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 101049W/E300004

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Hitachi Energy India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman & Director
DIN: 08596097

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 21, 2024

250

Bengaluru
May 21, 2024

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director & CEO
DIN: 07032076

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Hitachi Energy India Limited
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Registered and Corporate Office: 8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru – 560 092,
Phone: 080 68473700 Website: www.hitachienergy.com/in

ATTENDANCE SLIP
Name and address of the Member(s)

:

_____________________________________________________________

Registered Folio No./DP ID & Client ID :

_____________________________________________________________

No. of Shares

_____________________________________________________________

:

I/We record my/our presence at the 5th Annual General Meeting of the Company being held at Sheraton Grand Bangalore Hotel
at Brigade Gateway, 26/1 Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar, Bengaluru – 560 055 on Wednesday, August 21, 2024
at 11:00 a.m. (IST)

Full name of the Proxy, if attending the Meeting:

Signature of the Member/ Joint Member/ Proxy attending the Meeting:

Note:
Persons attending the Meeting are requested to bring this Attendance Slip with them.

Hitachi Energy India Limited
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Registered and Corporate Office: 8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru – 560 092,
Phone: 080 68473700 Website: www.hitachienergy.com/in

Form No. MGT – 11
Proxy Form
[Pursuant to Section 105(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and
Rule 19(3) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014]
5th Annual General Meeting 2023–24

Name of the Member(s)

: _________________________________________________________________

Registered Address

: _________________________________________________________________

		_________________________________________________________________
E-mail ID

: _________________________________________________________________

Folio No./DP ID and Client ID

: _________________________________________________________________

I/We being the Member(s) holding __________________ shares of above-named Company, hereby appoint:

1.	Name: ____________________________________

Address:____________________________________

E-mail ID:___________________________________

Signature:_________________________or failing him;

Name: ____________________________________

Address:____________________________________

E-mail ID:___________________________________

Signature:_________________________or failing him;

Name: ____________________________________

Address:____________________________________

E-mail ID:___________________________________

Signature:_________________________or failing him;

2.

3.

As my/ our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me/ us and on my/ our behalf at the 5th Annual General Meeting of the Company
to be held on Wednesday, August 21, 2024 at 11:00 a.m. (IST), at Sheraton Grand Bangalore Hotel at Brigade Gateway, 26/1
Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar, Bengaluru – 560 055 and at any adjournment thereof in respect of such resolutions
as are indicated below:

Item
No.

Summary of Businesses to be transacted at the 5th Annual General Meeting

Ordinary Businesses
1.

Adoption of Financial Statements and Reports of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon for the financial year ended
March 31, 2024

2.

Declaration of Dividend

3.

Reappointment of Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN: 08596097), who retires by rotation at this Annual General Meeting and being eligible,
offers himself for re-appointment

Special Businesses
4.

Approval of remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors of the Company for the financial year 2024-25

5.

Approval of Material Related Party Transactions with Hitachi Energy Sweden AB for the financial year 2024-25

6.

Approval of Material Related Party Transactions with Hitachi Energy Australia Pty Ltd for the financial year 2024-25

7.

Approval of Material Related Party Transactions with Hitachi Energy Ltd., Switzerland for the financial year 2024-25

Signed this ____________ day of ______________ 2024

Signature of Member(s): __________________________

Affix
Revenue
Stamp

Signature of Proxy holder(s): _______________________

Notes:
1.	This form of proxy in order to be effective should be duly completed and deposited at the Registered Office of the Company,
not less than 48 hours before the commencement of the Meeting.
2.

For the Resolutions, Explanatory Statement and Notes, please refer to Notice of the 5th Annual General Meeting.

3.	Please complete all details including your membership details in above box before submission. Blank/Incomplete Proxies shall
be considered as invalid.
4.	A person can act as a Proxy on behalf of members not exceeding fifty and holding in the aggregate not more than 10% of the
total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights. A member holding more than 10% of the total share capital of the
Company carrying voting rights may appoint a single person as proxy and such persons shall not act as a proxy for any other
person or member.
5.	In case of joint holders, the signature of any one holder will be sufficient, but names of all the joint holders should be stated.
6.	A Member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote on a poll
instead of himself and such proxy need not be a Member of the company.

Route Map to the Venue of the AGM
Venue: Sheraton Grand
Bangalore Hotel at
Brigade Gateway,
26/1 Dr. Rajkumar Road,
Malleswaram-Rajajinagar,
Bengaluru – 560 055

Yeshwanthpur

Indian Institute of Science
(Bangaluru)

Sandal Soap
Factory

Sheraton Grand
Bangalore Hotel
Orion Mall

Malleswaram

Rajajinagar

MAP NOT TO SCALE

Chord

Road

ISKCON Temple
Bangalore

N
W

E
S

Notes

Hitachi Energy India Limited is
committed to sustainability, and
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
reflects that commitment. The report
has been printed on recycled paper,
which is made from paper that has
already been used and then recycled
into a usable material. By opting
for recycled paper Hitachi Energy
India Limited contributes to reducing
environmental impact and promotes
responsible practices.

Additional information
Hitachi Energy India Limited reserves
all rights in this document and in
the subject matter and illustrations
contained therein. Any reproduction,
disclosure to third parties or utilization
of its contents – in whole or in parts – is
forbidden without prior written consent
of Hitachi Energy India Limited.
Registered office address
Hitachi Energy India Limited
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru – 560 092
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 68473700

