July 19, 2023
BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street,
Mumbai 400 001
(Atten: DCS Listing)

National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Plot No. C/1, G Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E),
Mumbai 400 051
(Atten: Manager Listing Department)

Ref: BSE Scrip Code: 543187, NSE Scrip Symbol: POWERINDIA
Dear Sirs,
Sub: Regulation 34 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 - Annual Report for the Financial Year 2022-23
We are enclosing herewith the 4th Annual Report of the Company for the financial year 2022-23 along with the Notice of the
Annual General Meeting which has been dispatched today (i.e. July 19, 2023) in electronic form to all eligible Members
whose email ids are registered with the Company / Depositories.
The 4th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Thursday, August 17, 2023 at 11.00 A.M. (IST) through
(“VC”) / Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”) in accordance with the Circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
and Securities and Exchange Board of India.
The Annual Report can also be accessed from the website of the Company at https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investorrelations/general-meetings
The Annual Report is enclosed pursuant to Regulation 34 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015.
Kindly take the same on your records.
Thanking you,
Yours faithfully,
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

Ammatanda
Chinnappa
Poovanna

Digitally signed by
Ammatanda Chinnappa
Poovanna
Date: 2023.07.19 22:24:21
+05'30'

Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Encl: as above
CC:
1. National Securities Depository Ltd.
2. Central Depository Services (India) Ltd.
3. KFin Technologies Limited – Registrar & Share Transfer Agent

Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Registered and Corporate Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru – 560 092,
Phone: 080 68473700
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
www.hitachienergy.com/in

Purpose-driven growth
Annual Report 2022-23

Hitachi Energy India Limited

Table of contents
002

Taking centre stage in a dynamic landscape

004 	

FY 2022-23 – performance at a glance

006

Company overview

010 	

Footprint

012

Financial performance

016

Message from Chairman and MD & CEO

018	Progressing with purpose
020

Energy system 2050

021 	

Sustainability

028

Events & Awards

030

Board of Directors

033

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report

067

AGM Notice

083

Board’s Report

092

Management Discussion & Analysis Report

144

Independent Auditors’ Report

154

Balance Sheet

155

Statement of profit and loss

156

Statement of cash flows

158

Notes to the financial statements

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

1

Introducing the theme

Purpose-driven growth
Hitachi Energy India believes that a carbon-neutral future is electric; its
purpose is to advance a sustainable energy future for all. The Company’s
mission is to make the world's energy system more sustainable, flexible,
and secure. As a pioneering technology leader, it actively collaborates with
its customers and partners to enable a sustainable energy future for both
current and future generations.
In line with its vision, Hitachi Energy India aspires to a world where carbon
footprints diminish, and a healthier society thrives with the help of its
sustainable energy solutions. To turn this vision into reality, the Company
has embraced a growth strategy inspired by purpose – an orchestration of
economic prosperity, ecological balance, and social benefit, achieved
through its commitment to the development and delivery of sustainable and
pioneering technologies for energy and ancillary sectors.
Investing in research and development, Hitachi Energy India focuses on
creating energy products that meet the highest quality standards while
remaining environmentally sustainable. Its ultimate objective is to support
economic growth while minimizing the environmental impact associated
with energy production and consumption.

“Accelerating the energy transition is key to carbon
neutrality and addressing the urgency of the climate
emergency. With electricity as the backbone of the
energy system, the power grid will play a critical role
and this is also the case in India. The focus remains on
purpose-driven, sustainable growth by championing
the cause of reaching net zero through an inclusive and
equitable energy transition. As the pioneering
technology leader, let us seize this pivotal moment to
drive substantial change, propelling the global
transition of energy system to be more sustainable,
flexible and secure.”

“As a nation, we have committed to growth driven by
non-fossil energy. At Hitachi Energy India, we
understand this ongoing transition and are resolutely
committed to driving the nation's growth engine. The
Comapny has been part of various nation-building
projects since its inception and will continue to do so.
Be it a seamless transition to renewable energy,
interstate transmission, electrification of Indian rail or
boosting an eco-system to spur industrial growth, there
is always our involvement through our innovative
products and services.”

Claudio Facchin
CEO – Hitachi Energy Ltd, Switzerland

N Venu
Managing Director and CEO – Hitachi Energy India Limited

2

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Taking center stage in a
dynamic landscape
FY 2022-23 marked significant shifts in the global energy
landscape, in no small part due to the Russia-Ukraine war and
its impact on supply chains. In this light, ongoing national
commitments to combat climate change were tested and
reaffirmed. Driven by the evolving global supply patterns,
India too cemented its position on the map.
The onset of the Russia-Ukraine war in February 2022 had a
profound impact on India's energy sector, leading to a
substantial increase in the price of India's crude basket. Within
the six months following the commencement of the war, the
price surged from US $80 per barrel to US $110, bringing about
a rapid and significant change in India's energy landscape. This
led to a 76 percent increase in India's oil import bill during the
first six months of the fiscal year. The conflict also resulted in a
substantial rise in the fertilizer bill, which is expected to have a
long-term impact on India's economy. In addition, supply chain
constraints and escalated demand of chips and electronics
squeezed supply. The escalating import bill, along with supply
disruptions, led to higher inflation and slower growth for India,
as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) responded to the situation by
raising interest rates.
A rising import bill, coupled with supply-side disruptions, has
meant that Indian consumer price inflation, which in the last
fiscal averaged between 4.5 and 5.5 percent, ended at 6.44
percent in FY 2022-23, according to the RBI. This story has also
played out the world over, with the only additional factor being
that pandemic-era stimulus in Western economies also
contributing to a surge in inflation. As a result, central banks
around the world have hiked rates to keep inflation in check.
After several hikes, the repo rate stands at 6.50 percent (March
2023) in India.
In terms of climate change, India made substantial
commitments towards sustainable development and reducing
carbon emissions. The country's dedication to combating
climate change was underscored in the Union Budget
FY 2022-23, which proposed measures to facilitate domestic
manufacturing of solar infrastructure and promote energysaving measures in large commercial buildings. To further

Sources: Forbes India and Invest India

support the government’s efforts towards the expansion of
renewable energy capacity, the Central Electricity Authority has
planned an investment of ₹2.44 trillion in transmission systems
dedicated to renewable grid integration from 2023 to 2030.
These strategic initiatives aim to drive the transition towards
clean energy and foster a conducive environment for integrating
renewable grids, developing data centers, promoting e-mobility,
and adopting smart grid technologies.
To balance the large-scale solar and wind energy being added
into the national grid, Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS)
will be critical by enabling time-shifting of power dispatch.
India is projected to lead globally in battery storage capacity,
adding 140-200GW by 2040, as per the Institute for Energy
Economics and Financial Analysis. Notable projects at the
state and central levels showcase the development in this
sector. The Production- Linked- Incentive (PLI) scheme will
further support domestic battery storage production.
Availability of bidding pipelines and timely signing of offtake
agreements will be vital for scaling up Battery Energy Storage
System (BESS) capacity in India.
Hitachi Energy India Limited is strategically positioned to
leverage the government's initiatives and the emerging trends in
India’s expanding renewable energy sector. With a strong
market presence and expertise in high-voltage power
technologies, the Company is poised to benefit from the
considerable investments in transmission including systems
dedicated to renewable grid integration. Hitachi Energy India's
comprehensive range of Transmission and Distribution (T&D)
solutions, which includes HVDC transmission corridors and
innovative transformers, power quality products and automation
perfectly align with the requirements for efficient power
evacuation from renewable energy sources. Moreover, the
Company's offerings for e-mobility, data centers and industries
present significant growth prospects. Hitachi Energy India's
unwavering commitment to digital solutions, alongside its focus
on enhancing efficiency, productivity and environmental
sustainability, solidifies its position as a trusted partner in
India's transition towards clean energy.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

India’s position in the
energy market
3rd

3rd

India is the third-largest consumer of
electricity worldwide, with a
population of 1.42 billion

India is the world’s third-largest
emitter of CO2, despite low per capita
CO2 emissions.3, 4

(as on 2023)

(as on 2023)

(as on 2019)

4th

5th

(as on 2023)

(as on 2021)

India is the third-largest producer of
electricity worldwide, with an installed
power capacity of 412 GW1

Largest installed renewable
energy (RE) capacity5

3rd

In attracting clean energy
investments US $14 Billion

Focus areas
2023

40%

of total generating capacity is in
form of renewable energy

90%

Rail broad-gauge
network electrified

1%

EV penetration of
the Indian market

2030

50%

500GW

Energy from nonfossil energy

Renewable
energy

100%

30%

1billion tons

1million tons

Rail electrification

of CO2 reduction

EV penetration

of green hydrogen in
annual production

Power Sector in India: Market Size, Industry Analysis, Govt Initiatives | IBEF (Govt. Trust)
Power Sector in India: Market Size, Industry Analysis, Govt Initiatives | IBEF (Govt. Trust)
3
India holds the key to hitting global climate change targets | World Economic Forum (weforum.org),
4
India’s carbon emissions: The world might depend on India’s climate efforts - The Washington Post
5
https://www.statista.com/statistics/267233/renewable-energy-capacity-worldwide-by-country/
6
These are the top 10 countries by energy transition investment | World Economic Forum (weforum.org), World Energy Investment 2023 (windows.net)
1
2

3

4

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

FY 2022-23 performance
at a glance
Financial Highlights

₹4,483.7 Cr

₹93.9 Cr

Revenue

Profit after tax (PAT)

₹253.4 Cr

₹22.16

EBITDA

Earnings per share

Business Highlights
Orders split by sectors

69%
Utilities

14%
Industries

16%
Transport and
Infrastructure

Orders split by offerings

63%

33%

5%

Products

Projects

Services

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

Sustainability Highlights
Planet

18%

16%

People

Peace

Reduction in total energy
consumption

15%
Gender diversity
in hiring

Reduction in total water
consumption

~45%

Reduction in total
greenhouse gas emission

Launched revised

Code of Ethics and
Business Conduct

Partnerships
Partnered with
NIT Warangal

IIT Roorkee

Developing centralized
monitoring and analytics center
to give hands on experience to
smart city engineers

In continuation of developing a full
ecosystem around the smart electric
grid Master Program, your Company
installed electric vehicle infrastructure

5

6

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Company overview

Driving India’s energy transition
Hitachi Energy India's is a prominent player in the power technology industry, widely
recognized for its comprehensive energy technology portfolio. The Company specializes
in providing sustainable solutions that help meet the increasing demand for electricity
with minimum environmental impact. Its products, systems, software, and service
solutions are designed to facilitate the safe, reliable, and efficient integration,
transmission, and distribution of bulk and distributed energy from conventional and
renewable sources.

Our journey
Over the years, the Company has been at the forefront of technological advancements, consistently pushing the boundaries of
innovation to meet the evolving energy needs of the nation. The Company’s rich heritage and deep understanding of the Indian
market has enabled it to forge strong relationship with customers, stakeholders, and partners across various sectors.

Hindustan Electric
Company is
incorporated and
later acquired by
Brown Boveri Cie
(BBC)

1949

First
manufacturing
facility in India is
set up in Maneja,
Vadodara - the
circuit breaker
factory

Operations
expansion
continues with
the inauguration
of the Grid
Automation
facility in Peenya,
Bangalore

Commissioned
the first back-toback HVDC
transmission link
for NTPC at
Vindhyachal
connecting the
northern and
western grids

Installed endto-end power
solutions for
Delhi Metro,
and SCADA to
monitor and
control the
power network

1965

1984

1989

2015

Energized the
world's highestrated 1,200kV
transformer

2016

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

As a conscientious leader in Indian power
technologies and energy systems, the Company is
dedicated to empowering all through sustainable
practices. Partnering with diverse sectors such as
utilities, industry, transport, infrastructure, the
Company works to plan, construct, operate, and
maintain sustainable power infrastructure. It
harnesses innovative technologies to navigate
unique customer challenges, with a team of
seasoned experts delivering bespoke solutions.
Since it entered the Indian market in 1949, the
Company has significantly expanded its local
operations to meet India's evolving power sector
needs and now takes pride in facilitating
accelerated energy transitions. The Company's
pioneering and digital solutions span the power
value chain, ensuring the provision of affordable,
reliable, and sustainable services to its clients.
Your Company has made significant investments
across the value chain – R&D centers, academia,
customer learning centers, employees, and
suppliers – to drive sustainable growth.

Rich parentage
Hitachi Energy India a Company with rich parentage is founded by two
iconic companies with a combined heritage of almost 250 years in
pioneering technologies. A powerhouse in manufacturing electronics,
industrial machinery, and infrastructure products since 1910, Hitachi
Ltd. lends its expertise and resources to fuel Hitachi Energy India's
innovative energy solutions for India. Hitachi’s leading digital
technologies merged with world-class power grids solutions will help
Hitachi Energy India to actively support the global transformation and
decarbonization of the energy system.
Hitachi Energy India delivers comprehensive energy solutions, ranging
from power generation systems to grid stabilization technologies and
energy storage solutions. Hitachi Energy India has emerged as a
prominent player in the energy sector through a strategic joint venture of
ABB's Power Grids business and Hitachi Ltd in 2018. Hitachi's strong
commitment to acquiring the remaining shares of Hitachi Energy India
(from ABB) ahead of schedule in December 2022 will help accelerate
synergies and implementation of Hitachi Energy's 2030 Plan.

The first digital
substation for
reliable,
round-theclock power to
serve the 350
companies for
India's largest
Information
Technology
Park

Partnering
Indian
Railways’
electrification
ambitions with
extensive
traction
equipment
orders

Listed the
demerged
Power Grid
business as
Hitachi Energy
India Ltd* (from
ABB) on the
Indian stock
exchanges

Energized one
of India's
longest bidirectional
UHVDC
transmission
links from
Raigarh to
Pugalur

Doubled
Power Quality
manufacturing
capacity in
India

2017

2018

2020

2021

2022

* (formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)

7

Largest rated
transformer for
solar
evacuation for
India’s largest
renewable
energy park

Greenfield
advanced
power system
- HVDC &
Power Quality
- factory
inaugurated
in Chennai

2022

2023

8

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Businesses

Leading in India’s energy and
technology space
Hitachi Energy India strives to provide maximum value to its
customers. To achieve this goal, the Company has a highly
organized network operation. Over 2,300 experts in India to
remain near customers, fostering a deep understanding and
knowledge of local market operating conditions across the
country. The Company connects the latest pioneering
developments and solutions through the competence and
reference points of our Business Units.
Grid Automation Business Unit
The Grid Automation Business Unit (BU) has a comprehensive
portfolio of solutions that cater to all key segments connected
to the energy system, including generation, transmission,
distribution, industries, transportation, and infrastructure
sectors. Solutions range from substation automation,
communication networks, grid automation services, and grid
edge solutions to enterprise software solutions, ensuring that
the Company offers a complete suite of services to meet its

customers' diverse needs. They enable customers across the
globe to optimize the critical systems that power, move and
connect everyone, thus building a more productive and
sustainable world.
Grid Integration Business Unit
The Grid Integration BU solutions are extensive, spanning a wide
range of transmission and substation applications and facilitating
the reliable and efficient integration of the future digital electric
network, all while minimizing environmental impact.
The Hitachi Energy India Grid Integration Business Unit (BU)
incorporates integrated systems, solutions, and services from the
Company’s DC and AC fields, including HVDC (High Voltage
Direct Current), Grid Edge, Substations, and Power Quality
solutions. The business also offers offshore wind connections,
semiconductors, and power consulting services for key
segments in the energy system, such as renewables,
transmission distribution, and e-transportation solutions.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

9

High Voltage Products Business Unit

Transformers Business Unit

Hitachi Energy India is a leading provider of high-voltage
technology, offering a wide range of high-voltage products
for both AC and DC systems up to 1,200 kilovolts (kV) and
1,100 kV, respectively. Its primary offerings for switchgear,
circuit-breakers, generator circuit breakers, power quality
products, surge arresters, disconnectors, instrument
transformers, and high-voltage services help enhance the
safety, reliability, and efficiency of power networks while
minimizing environmental impact.

Transformers BU team leverages innovative and diverse technology to
transform energy, delivering social, environmental, and economic
value and enabling a sustainable energy future for current and future
generations. The business’s comprehensive portfolio includes power
transformers, traction transformers, insulation and components,
digital sensors, and transformer services.

The product portfolio incorporates key innovations in active
technology power quality and battery energy storage, ecoefficient switchgear, digital generator circuit-breakers, and
hybrid and integrated switchgear. The Company’s continued
technology leadership enables innovations in ultra-high-voltage
power transmission, which allows for flexible smart grids and
enhances eco-efficiency.

The Company’s transformers have been deployed across power
generation, transmission, and distribution to metals and mining,
oil and gas, commercial and infrastructure projects, and
mobility. As the grid becomes more complex, the transformers
play an increasingly vital role in improving power quality and
network management. The Company is proud to introduce its
TXpert™ Ecosystem, the next level in transformer digitalization,
further advancing its commitment to innovation and
sustainability.

10

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Footprint

Shaping India's energy landscape
Establishing a strong presence in India's dynamic energy landscape, Hitachi Energy India is a trusted and reliable partner. With a
local footprint and a wide range of innovative solutions, The Company is well-equipped to address the evolving energy needs of
the nation. From transmission and distribution systems to electrification and renewable grid integration, the Company’s expertise
and advanced technologies make it a key player in driving the sustainable energy transition in India.

Chandigarh

Gurgaon

Faridabad
Lucknow

Jaipur

Guwahati

Bhopal

Ahmedabad

Kolkata
Vadodara
• Maneja
• Savli (Main & Feeder)
• Halol
Mumbai

Raipur
Bhubaneshwar

Pune

Hyderabad

Bengaluru (country
headquarters)
• Peenya
• Dodbalapur
Chennai
Mysuru

Kochi

Source: SurveyofIndia
https://surveyofindia.gov.in/documents/polmap-eng-11012021.jpg

Sales Offices
Sales Touch Points
Manufacturing Locations

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

Enabling power for

19 FACTORIES
across 8 MANUFACTURING
LOCATIONS

11 SALES OFFICES and
7 SALES TOUCH POINTS

2,323
Permanent Employees

ENERGYDEC
Energy digital
experience center in
Bengaluru

ENERGYTEC
Energy technology
experience center in
Maneja

90 MILLION PEOPLE through
the world’s first multi-terminal
UHVDC transmission link

Facilitating roundthe-clock power for

350 COMPANIES at India's
then largest IT Park

>50% of HVDC links in India
use Hitachi India Energy
technology

9/10 METRO RAIL
SERVICES
Deploy Hitachi Energy
India technology

11

12

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Financial performance

Resilient growth, sustainable
success
Hitachi Energy India's remarkable success is a testament to its unwavering dedication to purpose-driven growth. The Company's
focus on high-growth segments, strong regional capabilities, and enduring customer relationships have propelled its achievements
throughout the year. Overcoming challenges like price increases and trade bottlenecks, Hitachi Energy India has consistently
achieved substantial revenue growth, establishing a solid foundation for continued progress and prosperity. By prioritizing its
purpose, the Company remains committed to advancing sustainable energy solutions and contributing to a healthier society.

Key financial metrics
Particulars

Amount (₹ Crore)

Total orders received

6,817.20

Revenue

4,468.51

Profit before tax after exceptional items
Profit after tax

130.82
93.9

Key ratios
Particulars
Effective tax rate
Earnings per share (in ₹)

28.22%
22.16

Debtor turnover

3.0

Inventory turnover

3.8

Current ratio

1.2

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

13

New factories and products

Ramping up technologies for
access to energy in India
With a focus on sustainable solutions and cutting-edge technology, Hitachi Energy India's investments exemplify the Company's
commitment to driving progress and meeting the evolving needs of the power sector. These initiatives contribute to India's carbon neutral
ambitions.
Manufacturing facility for production of resin-impregnated
paper bushings

Greenfield manufacturing facility for high-voltage
power quality products

The Company inaugurated a new transformer components
factory in May 2022 at Vadodara. This will be the first
manufacturing facility in India producing resin-impregnated
paper bushings up to 400kV voltage level. The new low
environmental impact production for dry bushings is in line
with the country's ambitious goals of integrating a larger
proportion of renewable energy sources and striving towards
carbon neutrality.

This state-of-the-art facility in Bengaluru doubles the
Company’s production capacity for advanced capacitor
units, banks, and other products. These cutting-edge
solutions play a vital role in improving efficiency and
reducing energy waste in power utilities, industries,
renewables, and transportation sectors.

14

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

As a part of Hitachi Energy's global manufacturing network, this
facility not only creates direct and indirect employment
opportunities but also fosters a local supplier ecosystem
throughout the manufacturing value chain. Innovative processes
in the factory that reduce electrical energy consumption per
process step by almost 40 percent.
Vadodara factory to produce operating mechanisms for
circuit breakers
The new factory in Maneja, Vadodara is dedicated to the
production of Operating Mechanism for circuit breakers. This
facility serves the growing demand from both global and local
customers who require reliable and efficient operating
mechanisms by incorporating multiple standards of drives,
which ensure extensive applications in circuit breakers
worldwide.
Equipped with cutting-edge assembly stations and utilizing the
latest equipment technology, the factory ensures seamless
production processes. Lean principles are diligently implemented
throughout, including the adoption of a single-piece flow,
optimized material flow, and the establishment of a supermarket
for sub-assemblies and finished goods. These practices
contribute to the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the
factory.
Advanced power system factory
In February 2023 the Company inaugurated an advanced power
system factory in Chennai specializing in cutting-edge power
electronics for HVDC systems, STATCOM, and the MACH™

control and protection system. This factory serves a dual
purpose by meeting the growing demand for clean energy
solutions in India and worldwide. Its focus is on seamlessly
integrating renewable energy sources on a large scale,
supporting the global energy transition.
It also functions as the world's second testing laboratory for
power quality control solutions. With its strategic location, the
factory is well-positioned to meet the increasing demand for
high-voltage transmission projects in India and contribute to
global HVDC installations through product exports.
New product launches
Hitachi Energy India's commitment to research and development
has resulted in the introduction of several ground-breaking products. These new offerings leverage the power of digitalization,
advanced connectivity, and specialized hardware to deliver enhanced performance, efficiency, and reliability across various energy applications.
• TRO600 series wireless routers with 5G capability: These
routers are designed to bring 5G connectivity to mission-critical industrial and utility operations, ensuring high reliability and
resiliency. The TRO600 series offers a cost-effective solution
for extending localized services by utilizing the closest wired or
wireless backhaul interconnect. Alongside its hybrid wireless
architecture, this series also includes a reliable wired backhaul
option for mission-critical applications, featuring a range of
gigabit Ethernet and fiber interfaces.
• TXpert™ Hub: This next-generation digital technology serves
as the heart of the TXpert™ Ecosystem for transformer digitalization. It enables the aggregation and analysis of data from
digital transformer sensors, offering digital connectivity, monitoring, and optimization capabilities.
• OceaniQTM portfolio: Designed specifically for offshore wind
energy, this ruggedized technology addresses the unique challenges of the offshore energy environment. It includes solutions for fixed platforms, floating structures, and sub-sea
power systems. OceaniQTM will result in greater volumes of
wind power being efficiently harvested and integrated into the
world’s energy system.
• Lumada Inspection Insights: This portfolio leverages AIdriven analysis of images, including satellite imagery, to provide intuitive visual insights into the health and risk profiles of
assets and infrastructures. It aids in better asset management
and service planning.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

New and ongoing projects

Powering an energy revolution
As a leader in the energy sector, Hitachi Energy India continuously strives to innovate and drive sustainable solutions for
a rapidly evolving world. Your Company's commitment to excellence and expertise is reflected in the diverse range of
projects we undertake.
From cutting-edge power system factories to advanced manufacturing facilities, our new projects are geared towards
meeting the growing demand for clean energy solutions, enhancing grid reliability, and facilitating the integration of
renewable energy sources on a national scale.

Milestone projects in FY 2022-23
With its ongoing projects, Hitachi Energy India is making
significant strides in India's energy sector, solidifying its position
as a key player in the country's ambitious growth plans.
High-Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) projects
Building upon its commendable track record in HVDC projects,
including the pioneering Vindhyachal project, which marked the
Company's introduction of HVDC technology in India, Hitachi
Energy India continues to lead the way in driving innovation and
efficiency in the energy sector. In FY 2022-23, Hitachi Energy
India commissioned the Raigarh-Pugalur project, its sixth
HVDC installation in India, and won the Kudus-Mumbai HVDC
link, showcasing the Company's unwavering commitment to
pushing the boundaries of power transmission capabilities.
Power transformers for NTPC's solar park in Gujarat
Hitachi Energy India is actively engaged in supporting India's
renewable energy goals. By securing orders to supply power
transformers for NTPC's expansive renewable energy park in
Gujarat, the Company is contributing to the growth of clean and
sustainable energy generation. These state-of-the-art
transformers, manufactured at the Transformers factory in
Vadodara, will play a pivotal role in efficiently pooling and
transmitting the power generated from the expansive solar park,
thereby bolstering the overall reliability and stability of the grid.
As part of this order, your Company is supplying the highestrated transformers used for solar evacuation in India till now.
Rail transportation system and digitalization of
industries' asset base
With its forward-thinking approach and unwavering
commitment to innovation, Hitachi Energy India is not only
transforming India's energy landscape but also leaving a
lasting impact on diverse sectors. From revolutionizing rail
transportation with its locally designed and engineered Scott
Transformers for the Vande Bharat Express to enabling
digitalization and optimization of assets through its TXpert™
Ecosystem, the Company is continuously pushing the
boundaries of what is possible.

Expanding horizons

Mumbai HVDC
By securing a major order from one of India’s largest
players in the energy landscape for a high-voltage direct
current (HVDC) transmission system, Hitachi Energy
India is spearheading the advancement of power
transmission technology in India. This transformative
project, linking Kudus to Mumbai, not only addresses
the city's soaring electricity demands but also serves as
a crucial step towards achieving Mumbai's ambitious
goal of becoming the first carbon-neutral city in South
Asia. This is the first HVDC city-infeed order secured by
Hitachi Energy in the world.

ENOC
Hitachi Energy India has been awarded the
prestigious Energy Network Operations Center
(ENOC) project by the electric power transmission
branch of an Indian conglomerate. This collaboration
aims to achieve technological advancements in
operation and maintenance practices through the
establishment of two control centers and 29
substations. This ENOC utilizes cloud-based
platforms, machine learning, drones, and geospatial
technologies to monitor project progress, manage
assets digitally, and conduct surveys. Leveraging
Hitachi Energy's MicroSCADA X automation platform,
the ENOC will provide real-time monitoring, control,
and protection of critical power assets, maximizing
grid efficiency and minimizing disruptions.

15

16

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Message from Chairman and MD & CEO

Illuminating India's path to a
renewable future

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman

Dear Shareholders,
As we look to the future, the pursuit of decarbonization has
become an integral goal of the global economy. We are pleased
to provide you with an update on Hitachi Energy India's progress
and the exciting opportunities that lie ahead in India's renewable
energy sector.
The commitment to a sustainable future has led to significant
progress in the renewable energy sector. Efforts such as the launch
of green hydrogen initiatives demonstrate the ambition to lead in
clean energy production. Companies equipped with expertise in
renewable technologies, like Hitachi Energy India, actively support
the transition by leveraging renewable sources such as wind and
solar power.
The government is accelerating the shift to non-fossil fuel-based
electricity, with targets for increasing renewable energy capacity and
promoting electric vehicles. As industries expand along with the
nation, the need for a reliable and sustainable power supply to meet
the increasing demand is more crucial now than ever.

N. Venu
MD & CEO

Well positioned to capitalize
Hitachi Energy India is well-positioned to seize significant
opportunities in the evolving Indian energy landscape. As the nation
moves towards a sustainable future, our expertise and commitment
to innovation place us at the forefront of key growth areas.
• Renewable energy market: India's renewable energy market is set
for exponential growth, with solar and wind capacity expected to
multiply by five and three times, respectively. Hitachi Energy India
is ready to capitalize on this momentum by offering a range of
solutions, including energy management automation, evacuation
systems, and transformers. The Company has established
presence and capabilities uniquely position us to support the
country's ambitious renewable energy targets.
• Data centre market: The data centre market in India is on a
rapid expansion trajectory, with plans to add 45 new data
centres in the coming years. Hitachi Energy India is ready to
meet the increasing demand for reliable and sustainable power
solutions in this sector. The Company's offerings, such as
substations, GIS, automation, and transformers, align perfectly
with the requirements of data centre operators.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

• Electrification of Indian Railways: With Indian Railways
undergoing a massive upgrade and electrification initiative,
Hitachi Energy India has a tremendous opportunity to
contribute. As a long-term partner, we can provide the
necessary products and services for this transformation.
The electrification drive, combined with the adoption of
energy-efficient systems, opens avenues for our solutions in
high-density corridors and other rail infrastructure projects.
• Service portfolio expansion: Hitachi Energy India's extensive
installed base in India provides a solid foundation to expand its
service portfolio. With offerings ranging from digitalized classic
services to advanced services and servitized solutions, the
Company aims to increase its share of service orders.
• Leveraging export potential: Hitachi Energy India's
manufacturing capabilities enable us to leverage the export
market effectively. With a quarter of your Company's orders
currently being exports-led, the Company is committed to
further developing this trend. By capitalizing on its
manufacturing muscle and expanding its reach, Hitachi
Energy India can tap into new markets and drive growth.
Surpassing targets
In 2019, when Hitachi Energy India's standalone operations
began, the team set itself formidable target of achieving ₹ 7,000
crores in orders within three years. We are proud to report that
by the end of FY 2022-23, the Company's total orders have
reached ₹ 6,817 crores. It is worth noting that this goal was set
before the unexpected and unprecedented disruption caused
by the global pandemic, which impacted lives, supply chains,
and the economy.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

organized webinars and training sessions on well-being,
ergonomics, and building resilience. Safety, integrity, and
quality have always been our license to operate and your
Company has continued to prioritize them by conducting
regular training and awareness programs to create a secure
and supportive working environment for all.
Your Company is committed to reducing our carbon footprint
and having achieved 100 percent fossil-free electricity
consumption in our facilities last year. In FY 2022-23 the
Company achieved a 45 percent reduction in carbon footprint
since the inception of the Sustainability 2030 program.
Energy assessments and efficiency transformations are
underway, and we are adopting smart metering and
sustainable practices.
In conclusion
Hitachi Energy India's strong foundation, combined with
its strategic focus on key growth areas, positions itself to
harness these opportunities successfully. By continuing
to collaborate with stakeholders, innovate relentlessly,
and deliver sustainable solutions, we will shape the future
of the energy sector and create long-term value for our
stakeholders.
Hitachi Energy 2030: Purpose driven growth

Continuously strengthening our
power grids core business
Doubling up on Digital and
Services and expanding at the edge
of the energy system

Our employees are the cornerstone of Hitachi Energy India's
success, and the Company continues to attract top talent by
fostering a diverse and inclusive culture that offers abundant
opportunities for career growth. By launching innovative
employer branding programs and providing avenues for
continuous learning, the Company has created a culture of
lifelong learning and adaptation, crucial in today's volatile and
complex market environment.
Throughout the challenging times of the pandemic, the
Company stood strong and ensured the safety and well-being
of its employees. Despite the difficulties, your Company grew
its operations while maintaining strict protocols to protect
everyone. The Company went the extra mile in organizing
vaccination drives and offering support to those affected by the
pandemic, ensuring that its employees and their families
received the care they needed.
As the Company navigated the new territory of remote work, it
recognized the impact it had on its employees' health. Hence

2021

Plan

Build

Strategic planning
partner

Modularization
System Integration

Operate & Maintain
Lumada
software
services

Tomorrow

Innovation, Synergies,
Partnerships and M&A to
accelerate growth
Transition

Sustainability at heart

17

Tomorrow

Strengthen role as
product & systems
partner

Expand as
planning partner
Strengthen & Expand
2024

Performance
partner

Accelerate

Expand as
services &
operations partner

Sustainable growth

2027

2030

Hitachi Energy 2030 – our commitment to advancing a sustainable energy future for all,
delivering social, environmental and economic value, aligned with Hitachi’s vision and goals

On behalf of Hitachi Energy India we would like to
express our deepest gratitude to its esteemed
shareholders, investors, and dedicated employees. Your
unwavering support, trust, and commitment have been
instrumental in propelling the Company's journey
towards a sustainable and prosperous future.
Together, we will contribute to India's growth story by
providing industry-leading experience, domain
knowledge, and pioneering technologies to accelerate the
global energy transition.
Sincerely,
for Hitachi Energy India Limited
(formerly known as ABB Products and Systems India Limited)
Achim Michael Braun		
Chairman			

N. Venu
MD & CEO

18

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Progressing
with purpose
Hitachi Energy India is proud to have
placed sustainability at the core of its
mission, with a firm promise to lead
the way toward a sustainable future
for everyone. The company’s
strategic plan, Sustainability 2030,
outlines its key priorities and
commitments toward conducting
business sustainably and responsibly.
Sustainability 2030 focuses on four
key areas - Planet, People, Peace,
and Partnerships - with
corresponding targets that align
closely with the United Nation’s
Sustainable Development Goals (UN
SDGs). The Company aims to create
social, environmental, and economic
value that benefits stakeholders and
the planet as a whole while setting a
high industry standard and working
towards a brighter and more
sustainable future.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

19

20

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Energy system 2050

Toward a vision of net zero
emissions
Accelerating the transition to a carbon-neutral energy system necessitates the adaptation and adoption of policies and
regulations to enable technology, as well as new business models to support scalable, flexible, and secure energy systems.

Improved

Energy
efficiency

60%

Surge in CO2 emission since the United
Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change in 1992

with electrification

All market
sectors
Are moving towards electrification

Energy
sector-coupling
is beneficial for the environment and the energy
production

Massive energy transition challenges
Digital and energy platforms are needed to manage the enormous power system energy
transition challenges:

• Increased complexity
• Additional capacity for CO2 reduction

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

Sustainability

Sustainability 2030 goals
Hitachi Energy India's commitment to sustainability extends beyond its innovative projects and technologies. The Company
recognizes the vital role it plays in enabling sustainable operations. Lowering the carbon footprint, product localization, and
digitalization of the grid has become the key pillars of Hitachi Energy India's success in driving sustainability.
In line with its global vision, Hitachi Energy India announced ambitious 2030 carbon-neutral goals, outlining a clear
roadmap for its operations in India. To achieve these targets, the Company adopted a comprehensive approach,
combining grassroots efforts with top-down strategies to meet the urgent demands of a carbon-neutral future.
Furthermore, the Company revolutionized its approach to sourcing green electricity, transitioning from a mix that included
renewable energy certificates to one predominantly led by clean power sourced from generators. Embracing solar energy,
Hitachi Energy India implemented rooftop solar generation in select locations and adopted off-grid solar power for its
project site offices, significantly reducing reliance on polluting diesel consumption.
With a firm commitment to Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) and carbon neutrality, and renewable energy integration,
Hitachi Energy India is setting new standards and inspiring positive change within the industry.

Planet

Carbonneutral
In our own operations1

50%

Reduction of CO2 equivalent
emissions2 along the value chain

50%

Reduction of
waste disposed3

25%
Reduction of
freshwater use3

25%

Reduction of hazardous
substances and chemicals4

Minimal use of carbon offsets
2019 baseline
3
2019 baseline
4
2022 baseline
1
2

Contribution to UN Sustainable Developmental Goals

Hitachi Energy India is dedicated to achieving carbon neutrality by 2030 and has
already taken significant steps towards this goal. The Company has successfully
reached its first target of using 100 percent fossil-free electricity in operations,
reducing CO2 equivalent emissions by over 45% compared to 2019. By investing in
projects like solar roof panels, green tariffs, Energy Attribute Certificates, and Power
Purchase Agreements, Hitachi Energy India has made remarkable progress in
increasing energy efficiency and electrifying operations.
To further reduce its carbon footprint, Hitachi Energy India has replaced diesel with
Compressed Natural gas (CNG) and invested in solar installations, particularly in
Maneja. These initiatives not only contribute to cleaner energy alternatives but also
diversify the company's power sourcing options. In addition, the Company has
implemented smart metering across its facilities, enabling close monitoring and
optimization of energy consumption. By embracing advanced metering technology, the
company enhances energy efficiency, leading to more sustainable operations and a
reduced environmental impact.

21

22

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Peace

Contribution to UN SDG

Zero

incidents of corruption
and bribery
The Company's action converges promoting peaceful, inclusive, and sustainable
societies. It places utmost importance on safety, integrity, and quality, which form the
foundation of its operational license. During FY 2022-23, Hitachi Energy India took a
significant step forward by adopting a new Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. This
comprehensive framework establishes a set of rules and principles that serve as a
compass for decision-making and actions throughout the organization and reflects
Hitachi Energy India's unwavering commitment to uphold its Identity and Values,
fostering a culture of integrity and responsible business practices.

Partnerships

Contribution to UN SDG

Increase

Involvement in partnership with
varied stakeholders
The Company recognizes that energy transition requires strong collaboration and is
committed to being the partner of choice for a sustainable energy future. The Company
strengthened its partnership with NIT Warangal by establishing a smart electric grid lab
for students.
Soon, the Company plans to launch the Central Monitoring and Analytics Center at IIT
Roorkee, offering students the opportunity to learn, explore, and enhance the ongoing
smart city pilot program at the institute.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

People

Zero
harm

Encouraging employees to stay
healthy – physically and mentally

Life-long

Augmenting career development and
ownership through learning culture

Top
quartile

Declining health absence rates

Up to 10%
Increase gender diversity by 2025

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

Contribution to UN SDGs

The Company is committed to deliver meaningful employee experiences,
empowering its exceptional workforce to thrive and contribute their best every
day. Through the Diversity 360 promise, the Company attracts and develops top
talent for sustainable and profitable growth.
As a critical infrastructure provider, the Company takes pride in its passionate and
committed employees who are driving the sustainable energy future. It prioritizes
creating safe working environments, ensuring business continuity and effectiveness
in the modern world. The Company's safety focus includes rigorous risk
assessments and training, aiming for zero harm by 2030 and top-quartile health
absence rates.
The Company partners with educational institutions, mentors and sponsors diverse
talents, and integrates learning and growth into people leadership. Diversity and
inclusion are central to the Company's practices and policies, fostering female
acceleration through global platforms, internal talent development, and the Female
Talent Development Programme. The Company aims to increase female diversity to
nearly 10 percent by 2025. By embracing diverse perspectives and fostering
collaboration, the Company believes it can drive innovation and deliver
sustainable solutions for the energy transition's shared challenges.

23

24

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Diversity, Equality, and Inclusion

Diversity 360
Hitachi Energy, despite having the combined heritage of 150 years between ABB and Hitachi, considers itself a young, standalone
company. To deliver brilliant employee experiences, the Company launched Diversity 360 as its vision for a new mindset, stronger
culture, and a new way of working. This initiative aims to empower its extraordinary employees at Hitachi Energy by placing them at
the center of everything the Company does. Diversity 360 comprises four workstreams: i) the Leadership Pillars, ii) Female
Acceleration, iii) Live Diversity and Inclusion, iv) Attract and Grow Talent. All employee programs and initiatives are interconnected with
Diversity 360.
Hitachi Energy India adheres to the broader framework of Diversity 360, with a particular emphasis on gender diversity. It has set a
goal to increase its gender diversity ratio to 8-10 percent by 2025, from the current 7 percent in FY 2022-23. Various initiatives have
been launched to attract women based on merit. Alongside recruitment drives, Hitachi Energy India offers INITIATE, a platform
designed for women who have taken a career break to resume their professional aspirations.
The Company has revamped its policies to promote diversity and create an employee-friendly environment.

What we believe:
Diversity + Collaboration = Great Innovation
Diversity is our differentiator

Celebrating diversity

Hitachi Energy India acknowledges that the challenges faced
today surpass the capabilities of any single company, team, or
individual. The Company holds the belief that true innovation
arises from collaboration with colleagues from diverse
backgrounds. Hitachi Energy India understands the importance
of talented individuals with different perspectives, as they bring
fresh ideas, challenge conventional thinking, and offer unique
viewpoints that promote growth.

Hitachi Energy India prioritizes diversity and inclusion to
drive business success, with a current gender diversity rate
of 7 percent in FY 2022-23. Through the implementation of
Diversity 360, the Company focuses on four key
workstreams. The first workstream embeds D&I strategies
into daily practices, policies, and leadership decisions,
involving employees in defining future leadership needs.
The second workstream aims to increase gender diversity
to nearly 10 percent by 2025, improving representation in
middle management and top leadership positions through
enhanced talent attraction and development programs. The
third workstream fosters a culture of collaboration and
inclusiveness through the SPECTRUM forum, promoting
accountability and conducting awareness programs on
unconscious bias. The fourth workstream concentrates on
attracting and growing talent, revising attraction policies,
and providing opportunities for internal talent growth and
development. Hitachi Energy India maintains a strong
commitment to integrity and internal control systems.

By cultivating an inclusive and welcoming environment that
facilitates connections among colleagues worldwide, Hitachi
Energy India aims to harness the full potential of diverse
perspectives. This is essential for shaping the future through
effective teamwork and generating truly impactful innovation.

Key focus areas
• Philosophy of Diversity 360
• Diversity of thoughts and inclusion
• Increase in gender diversity, wellness strategy, and
adapting to differences in work culture in the new world
• Employee well-being and workforce safety
• Implementing processes to create a more diverse and an
inclusive workplace

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

25

Embracing the power of
differences
Our leadership pillars

Attract and grow talent

Under the Diversity 360 approach, Hitachi Energy India has
implemented people-focused initiatives. This includes the India
Leadership Forum, revamped policies (SMART and WeCare),
and sponsorship for higher education. Development journeys
support new leaders, while global programs and partnerships
with Hitachi Academy provide learning opportunities. Talent
pools benefit high-potential employees, and programs like
Power+, Power2, and PowerSTART attract young talent.

At Hitachi Energy India, it engages with its employees in a lifelong learning culture. The Company empowered its employees to
acquire new knowledge and develop essential skills with digital
platforms like Percipio, which helped employees to learn 5,500+
courses. The Company believes in building a learning ecosystem
to share knowledge by organizing events, which brought 3,000+
employees together on the same platform to share knowledge on
various topics of learning and upskilling based on priority. This
approach with platforms empowering and connecting employees
with self-paced digital learning helps the Company to build
its talent pool.

People to
Purpose

People to
People

How we Live our
Vision

How we Work
Together

People to
Performance

Leaders
Connect

How we Deliver
Promises

People to
Potential
How we
Develop People

Live diversity and inclusion

Female acceleration

At Hitachi Energy India, diversity and inclusion are key to our
success. Our 'Live Diversity and Inclusion' pillar fosters a
collaborative and inclusive workplace culture. Led by
passionate employees, SPECTRUM, a voluntary forum, drives
inclusion initiatives with the support of DEI teams, business
leaders, HR professionals, and interested employees.
SPECTRUM organizes diverse programs, Diversity Councils,
brown bag lunches, town hall meetings, and engagement
activities. We prioritize employee well-being through monthly
webinars, counseling services, health talk sessions, and on-site
medical staff. We maintain a 'zero-tolerance' stance on sexual
harassment under the POSH Policy, providing a safe work
environment and effective resolution for all employees in Hitachi
Energy India and its affiliated entities.

Hitachi Energy India prioritizes leadership at all levels, aiming at
25 percent women managers and 40 percent women early
career hires. Diversity Equity and Inclusion are integrated into
practices including empowering and flexible working. Global
and Asia Women Networks promote dialogue and diversity
celebration. In India, gender diversity reached 7 percent in
FY 2022-23, with initiatives to increase women in talent
pipelines. The Female Talent Development Programme is
specifically designed to foster and cultivate the potential of
women in mid-management. The program recognizes the
importance of empowering women and aims to provide them
with the necessary tools, resources, and opportunities to excel
in their professional careers.

26

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Women in engineering

Encouraging and empowering
women
Under its Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives, Hitachi
Energy India is driving the ‘Women in the Engineering program
to promote gender equality and empower women in the
engineering workforce, thereby increasing diversity and
inclusion. The program was launched in 2020 and will run for
multiple years, targeting 80 girl students. Hitachi Energy India
has partnered with Sikshana Foundation for this initiative. The
program identifies girl students pursuing undergraduate
engineering courses from economically disadvantaged families
and provides them with a laptop, scholarship, soft-skill training,
career planning mentoring, industry visits, and interactive
sessions with senior management. The program aims to create
an environment of employability and summer training
opportunities for some students.

Furthermore, Hitachi Energy India is now working on the second
batch of 120 students, encouraging young girls from rural India
to pursue studies in core engineering by creating a conducive
environment for them in families and communities and
empowering them to make decisions based on their interests.
The Company plans to launch similar programs in the future,
continuing its commitment to promoting gender equality and
creating a sustainable energy future for all.
In addition, Hitachi Energy India demonstrates its commitment
towards gender equality and women empowerment by
sponsoring a summer camp at the prestigious Indian Institute of
Science (IISc) for the students participating in the program. The
summer camp provides a unique opportunity for these young
girls to engage in hands-on learning experiences, explore the
world of science and engineering, and further develop their
skills and passion in a supportive and inspiring environment.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

27

Events and awards

Achievements in the
spotlight
Golden Peacock Award for Corporate Governance
Hitachi Energy India's unwavering commitment to
exemplary corporate governance practices was recognized
with the prestigious Golden Peacock Award. This
esteemed accolade serves as a testament to the
company's unwavering dedication to upholding the highest
standards of transparency, integrity, and ethical conduct in
its business operations.

Most Trusted Brands of India by Marksmen Group
Hitachi Energy India's commitment to delivering exceptional
products and services, coupled with its strong brand
reputation, has earned the company the esteemed title of
"Most Trusted Brands of India" by the renowned Marksmen
Group. This prestigious recognition showcases Hitachi Energy
India's dedication to building trust, reliability, and customer
satisfaction in the Indian market.

28

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Events and awards

A year of impactful engagements
Events
ELECRAMA
The company participated at ELECRAMA 2023, for the first
time as Hitachi Energy India. The Company showcased its
cutting-edge technologies and solutions, garnering an
exceptional response from the attendees. Its booth received
a tremendous influx of visitors, with over 1,000 high-quality
walk-ins expressing keen interest in exploring Hitachi
Energy India's offerings.

Innorail
Hitachi Energy India actively participated in Innorail 2022, a
dynamic event filled with valuable insights, engaging
discussions, and innovative technologies. The conference
provided an excellent platform for industry leaders, experts,
and stakeholders to come together and explore potential
avenues of collaboration. With a shared focus on advancing
towards a sustainable energy future, Innorail 2022 offered a
valuable opportunity for Hitachi Energy India to showcase its
expertise, exchange knowledge, and contribute to the
collective efforts aimed at shaping the future of rail and
sustainable transportation.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

ISUW
Hitachi Energy India played a pivotal role in addressing the
emerging opportunities and challenges associated with the
energy transition at the prestigious India Smart Utility Week
(ISUW) 2022. Organized by the India Smart Grid Forum
(ISGF), ISUW brought together leading industry experts,
policymakers, and utility professionals to discuss and
showcase innovative solutions for building smart,
sustainable, and efficient energy systems.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

29

30

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Board of Directors

Leading with vision
At Hitachi Energy India, we are dedicated to spearheading ground-breaking advancements that foster positive
transformations. Our esteemed Board of Directors comprises a diverse group of seasoned leaders, each contributing their
distinct expertise and perspectives. With their combined wisdom, strategic guidance, and unwavering commitment to
excellence, they play a pivotal role in shaping our Company's trajectory as the vanguard in delivering innovative,
dependable, and sustainable energy solutions.

Achim Michael Braun

N. Venu

Chairman

Managing Director & CEO

Ismo Antero Haka

Akila Krishnakumar

Director

Independent Director

Mukesh Hari Butani

Meena Ganesh

Independent Director

Independent Director

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

31

Country Management Committee

Confident leadership, purposeful
direction
Hitachi Energy India has promising leadership pillars that provide purposeful direction, creating connections among people that
promote their potential, enhance performance and achieve a purpose-driven growth.

From left to right (standing)

From left to right (sitting)

•

Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel and Company
Secretary

•

R Gnanaprakash, Country HR Director (Ad interim)

•

Manashwi Banerjee, Head of Communications

•

Akilur Rahman, Chief Technology Officer

•

•

Karthik Krishnamurthi, Head of Sales and Marketing

Ramkumar D, Senior Vice President, Grid Power
Quality Solutions

•

Ajay Singh, Chief Financial Officer

•

N Venu, Managing Director & CEO

•

Ahmad Khan, Senior Vice President, Grid Automation

•

•

Atul Pandit, Senior Vice President, Transformers

Rakesh Dwivedi, Senior Vice President,
High Voltage Products

•

Saji S, Senior Vice President, High Voltage Direct Current

32

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Company Information
Board of Directors
Achim Michael Braun, Chairman
Nuguri Venu, Managing Director and CEO
Ismo Antero Haka, Director
Akila Krishnakumar, Independent Director
Mukesh Hari Butani, Independent Director
Meena Ganesh, Independent Director
Audit Committee
Mukesh Hari Butani, Chairperson
Akila Krishnakumar, Member
Meena Ganesh, Member
Nuguri Venu, Member
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Meena Ganesh, Chairperson
Mukesh Hari Butani, Member
Nuguri Venu, Member
Ismo Antero Haka, Member
Nomination and Remuneration
Committee
Akila Krishnakumar, Chairperson
Mukesh Hari Butani, Member
Achim Michael Braun, Member
Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee
Akila Krishnakumar, Chairperson
Achim Michael Braun, Member
Nuguri Venu, Member
Risk Management Committee
Mukesh Hari Butani, Chairman
Meena Ganesh, Member
Ismo Antero Haka, Member
Nuguri Venu, Member
Ajay Singh, Member

Environment, Social and
Governance Committee
Meena Ganesh, Chairperson
Akila Krishnakumar, Member
Achim Michael Braun, Member
Nuguri Venu, Member
Statutory Auditors
M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants, 12th Floor,
UB City, Canberra Block,
No 24, Vittal Mallya Road,
Bengaluru - 560 001
Chief Financial Officer
Ajay Singh
General Counsel, Company
Secretary and Compliance Officer
Poovanna Ammatanda
Cost Auditors
M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates
Cost Accountant
801-802, Goyal Trade Center,
Above Sona Cinema, Shantivan,
Near National Park, Borivali (East),
Mumbai - 400 066
Secretarial Auditors
M/s. BMP & Co. LLP
Company Secretaries 4272, Sapthagiri,
2nd Floor, Vivekananda Park
Road, Near Seetha Circle,
Girinagar, Bengaluru - 560 085

Registered Office
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru -560 092
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents
KFin Technologies Limited
Unit: Hitachi Energy India Limited
(formerly known as ABB Power Products
and Systems India Limited)
Selenium, Tower B,
Plot 31-32, Gachibowli,
Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally Mandal,
Hyderabad - 500 032
Bankers
Axis Bank Limited
Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of Bhutan Limited
Deutsche Bank AG
HDFC Bank Limited
ICICI Bank Limited
JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Standard Chartered Bank
State Bank of India
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
Corporate Identity Number
L31904KA2019PLC121597

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

Business Responsibility &
Sustainability Report
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
1.

2.

Details of the listed entity
Particulars

Response

1.

Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity

L31904KA2019PLC121597

2.

Name of the Listed Entity

Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)

3.

Year of incorporation

2019 (February 19, 2019)

4.

Registered office address

8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru-560092

5.

Corporate address

8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru-560092

6.

E-mail

investors@hitachienergy.com
(For investors)
poovanna.ammatanda@hitachienergy.com
(email id of Compliance Officer and Nodal Officer)

7.

Telephone

080-68473700

8.

Website

https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en

9.

Financial year for which reporting is being done

FY 2022-23
(April 01, 2022 to March 31, 2023)

10.

Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed

BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE)

11.

Paid-up Capital

₹ 8,47,63,350 divided into 4,23,81,675 Equity shares of ₹ 2 each

12.

Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of
the person who may be contacted in case of any queries
on the BRSR report

Mukesh Arora
(Telephone: 080-68473719)
Email: mukesh.arora1@hitachienergy.com

13.

Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report Standalone basis (Consolidated reporting is not applicable)
made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on
a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities
which forms a part of its consolidated financial statements,
taken together).

Products/ services
14.

15.

3.

S. No.

Description of Main Activity Description of Business Activity

% of Turnover of the entity

I

Sale of products

Design, manufacturing/configuration & supply of system,
equipment, devices and accessories products

79 %

II

Execution of contracts for
projects and services

Project and service engineering, installation, commissioning and
support

15.9 %

Products / Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90 percent of the entity’s turnover):
S. No.

Product / Service

NIC Code

% of total Turnover contributed

I

Manufacture of electric motors, generators, transformers and electricity
distribution and control apparatus

271

79 %

II

Projects and services of related manufactured electrical equipment.

279

15.9 %

Operations
16.

1

Details of business activities (accounting for 90 percent of the entity’s turnover):

Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location

Number of plants

Number of offices

Total

National

81

112

19

International

-

3

3

8 manufacturing locations that contain 19 factories

11 sales offices and 7 sales touch points across India

2

33

34

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

17.

Markets served by the entity:
a.

b.

Number of locations
Locations

Number

National (No. of States)

All states & Union Territories

International (No. of Countries)

70+ countries

What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
26.6 percent

c.

A brief on types of customers
The Company serves a wide range of customers – Public & Private Power & Energy Utilities, Industries,
Transportation, and Infrastructure companies. These include EPCs (Engineering, Procurement & Construction)
& OEMs (Original Equipment Manufacturer) operating in the above segments.

4.

Employees
18.

Details as at the end of the Financial Year:
a.

Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S. No.

Particulars

Male

Total
(A)

No. (B)

Female
% (B / A)

No. (C)

% (C / A)

EMPLOYEES
I

Permanent (D)

1765

1614

91%

151

9%

II

Other than Permanent (E)

64

44

69%

20

31%

Total employees (D + E)

1829

1658

91%

171

9%

III

WORKERS

b.

IV

Permanent (F)

558

554

99%

4

1%

V

Other than Permanent (G)

552

521

94%

31

6%

VI

Total employees (F + G)

1110

1075

97%

35

3%

No. (B)

% (B / A)

No. (C)

Differently abled employees and workers:
S. No.

Male

Total
(A)

Particulars

Female
% (C / A)

DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
I

Permanent (D)

1

1

100%

0

0

II

Other than Permanent (E)

0

0

0

0

0

III

Total employees (D + E)

1

1

100%

0

0

11%

DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS

19.

IV

Permanent (F)

9

8

89%

1

V

Other than Permanent (G)

0

0

0

0

0

VI

Total employees (F + G)

9

8

89%

1

11%

Participation / Inclusion / Representation of women
Particulars

20.

No. and percentage of Females

Total (A)

No. (B)

% (B / A)

Board of Directors

6

2

33

Key Management Personnel

3

0

0

Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
Turnover rate in the current FY
Particulars

FY 2022-23
April 2022 and Mar 2023

FP 2021-22
Jan 2021 and Mar 2022

FY 2020
Jan 2020 - Dec 2020

Male

Female

Total

Male

Female

Total

Male

Female

Total

Permanent Employees

11.2%

21.02%

12.0%

9.1%

13.8%

9.4%

4.8%

7.1%

5.0%

Permanent Workers

0.2%

0.0%

0.2%

4.1%

20.0%

4.2%

3.9%

0.0%

3.9%

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

5.

35

Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21.

6.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

(a) Names of holding/ subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures

S. No.

Name of the holding/ subsidiary / associate
companies / joint ventures (A)

Indicate whether
holding/ Subsidiary/ % of shares held by
Associate/ Joint
the listed entity
Venture

Does the entity indicated at column
A, participate in the Business
Responsibility initiatives of the listed
entity? (Yes/No)

I

Hitachi Energy Ltd (formerly known as Hitachi
ABB Power Grids Ltd)

Holding

75%

No
No

II

ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd

Holding

NIL

III

ABB Ltd

Holding

NIL

No

IV

ABB Switzerland Ltd

Holding

NIL

No

CSR Details
22.

(i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013: (Yes / No) - Yes
(ii) Turnover (in ₹): 4,483.65 Crores (As on March 31, 2023)
(iii) Net worth (in ₹): 1,215.31 Crores (As on March 31, 2023)

7.

Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
23.

Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on
Responsible Business Conduct:

Stakeholder
group from whom
the complaint is
received

Grievance
Redressal
Mechanism in
Place
(Yes/No) (If Yes,
then provide
web-link for the
grievance redress
policy)

Communities

Yes
https://www.
hitachienergy.com/
in/en/contact-us

Number of
Number of complaints
complaints
pending
filed during resolution at
the year
the close of
the year

NIL

NIL

NA

NA

3

NIL

Employees and
workers

0

Customers
Value Chain Partners
Others (please specify)

Investors (other than
NA
shareholder)
Shareholders

24.

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year

https://scores.gov.
in/scores/Welcome.
html

Remarks

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period
Number of
complaints
Number of
pending
complaints filed
resolution at
during the year
the close of the
year

Remarks

NIL

NIL

NA

NA

NA

NA

NIL

12

NIL

NIL

0

0

0

523

83

763

91

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and
social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to
adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format.

S. No.

I

Material issue
identified

Safe, healthy, and
secure operations

Indicate
whether risk Rationale for identifying the risk /
or opportunity opportunity
(R/O)

Risk

Control of hazards and risks at
workplace(s) by implementing controls
effectively to ensure these hazards and
risks do not cause harm to employees
and workers.

Financial implications
of the risk or
In case of risk, approach to
opportunity (Indicate
adapt or mitigate
positive or negative
implications)
Safety is our licence to operate.
Fostering
safe
working
environments to protect our
people, preserve business
continuity
and
operate
effectively in our modern world.
HSE Management system has
been implemented as per ISO
14001 & 45001 and certified.

Negative

36

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

II

Climate change
and carbon
neutrality

Opportunity

Energy efficiency, increasing use
of non-fossil fuel, use of renewable
energy, efficient use of water and
recycling of materials.

NA

Positive

NA

Positive

NA

Positive

Reducing the use of resources through
circular economy.
III

Resource
efficiency and
circular economy

Opportunity

IV

Sustainable
products,
services, and
solutions

Opportunity

V

Responsible
Sourcing

Risk

Opportunity to minimize the use of
water, materials, pollution, and waste in
our operations and throughout the life
cycle of our solutions through a circular
mindset.
Increasing digitalization to extend the
life cycle of our solutions.

Managing sourcing of materials across
the supply chain and complying with
regulatory and customer requirements
regarding the prohibition and restriction
of substances, including hazardous
substances and responsible sourcing
of conflict minerals.

Integrating sustainable practices
into supply chain procedures.
Follow the OECD (Organization
for Economic Co-operation and
Development) due diligence
guidance and be involved in
relevant trade associations in
order to define and improve
best practices and encourage
responsible sourcing.

Negative

Health is top priority and needs to be
lived everywhere, well beyond the walls
of our home, offices, and factories.

VI

Well-being of
employees

Opportunity

The Company provides training to all
employees in resilience.
The Company prepares for the new
norms by “powering the way it works”.

NA

Positive

NA

Positive

The Company prioritizes health and
well-being in all sites and makes the
healthy choice, the easy choice.

VII

Diversity

Opportunity

The Company believes in integrating
diversity and inclusion into all our
practices and policies and foster female
acceleration through our Female Talent
Development Program.
The Company’s sustainability 2030
targets include increasing female
diversity from 5.8 percent to 8-10 percent
by 2025.

VIII

Human Rights
and labor
conditions

Risk

Human Rights policy and
control standard is in place to
evaluate Human Rights risks
Identification, evaluation and managing at all levels of operations.
Sustainability
Human Rights risks in its operation and Supplier
Development Program (SSDP)
supply chain and its consequences.
is a supplier engagement
initiative, to uphold human
rights and decent working
conditions.

Negative

Hitachi Energy India has
has a very stringent policy
on integrity that applies
to all. The Hitachi Energy
Code of Conduct provides a
framework for employees and
stakeholders to put business
principles into practice with
utmost integrity. The Company
regularly evaluates culture of
integrity, and non-compliance
is strictly acted upon.

Negative

NA

Positive

IX

Integrity and anticorruption

Risk

Hitachi Energy behaves in an ethical,
legal and responsible way. Lack of
adherence can have consequences
i.e. reputational damage with the
top line adverse effect; unattractive
employer for top talent; regulatory fines
and penalties etc.

X

Developing our
people

Opportunity

Cultivating life-long learning and
creating inclusive learning opportunities,
the Company fosters innovation.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

37

SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting
the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

Policy and management processes
I. a. Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle
and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)

Yes

b. Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)

Yes, few of the policies have been approved by the Board and other policies of Hitachi
Energy Group are adopted by the Company.

c. Web Link of the Policies, if available

Please refer to the section on ‘Links to the Company Policies and Programs’ section at
the end of this Report.

II. Whether the entity has translated the policy into
procedures. (Yes / No)

Yes.

III. Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain
partners? (Yes/No)

Yes, the policies are available to value chain partners through the Company’s web page.

IV. Name of the national and international codes/
certifications/labels/ standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship
Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards
(e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity
and mapped to each principle.

The following management systems have been implemented.

V. Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity
with defined timelines, if any.

VI. Performance of the entity against the specific
commitments, goals and targets along-with reasons in
case the same are not met.

ISO 9001: 2015 Quality Management System
ISO 14001: 2015 Environment Management System
ISO 45001: 2018 Occupational Health & Safety Management System.
Sustainability 2030 is a strategic plan for sustainability where Hitachi Energy summarizes
the main commitments to act and drive business in a sustainable way. Based around
four pillars: Planet, People, Peace and Partnerships, our strategy draws from the UN’s
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), where each pillar has corresponding targets that
drives its business to contribute social, environmental and economic value.
By 2030, the Company aims to achieve carbon-neutrality in its own operations. The
Company is targeting to reduce carbon emissions by 50% along the value chain.
The Company continues the use of 100% fossil-free electricity in its own operations. The
Company has reduced more than 42% of carbon emission as compared to previous year.

Governance, leadership and oversight
VII. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and achievements
(listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
Hitachi Energy has placed sustainability at the heart of its purpose. The Company has a committee on Environment, Social and Governance (ESG)
with an objective to assist the Board of Directors of the Company in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to the Hitachi Energy’s objectives,
policies, and practices pertaining to ESG. The committee oversees the effectiveness of sustainability programs and provides inputs related to matters of
ESG and corporate responsibility.
A sustainability plan aligned with a net-zero emissions future is integral to its business, growth and long-term success. Through Sustainability 2030,
Hitachi Energy has defined its strategy, which combines innovative solutions with a diverse and inclusive Company culture, to contribute to a more
sustainable society – aligned with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Now is the time for all stakeholders to collaborate and solve the
challenges of its time. Together with its customers and partners, the Company is co-creating and deploying flexible and resilient energy systems at
scale, which are sustainable, efficient, safe and secure.
The Company’s ESG targets are aligned with the four pillars of Sustainability 2030 plan: Planet, People, Peace and Partnerships.
ESG targets
Planet
Carbon-neutral in our own operations
Environment

Social,
Governance

↓ 50% CO2 emissions along the value chain
↓ 50% waste disposed
↓ 25% freshwater use
↓ 25% hazardous substances and chemicals

People
• Zero harm
• Top quartile health absence rates
• Life-long learning culture
• Increase female diversity from 5.8% in 2019 to 8-10% by 2025 t0 16-18% by 2030
Peace
• Zero incidents of corruption and bribery
Partnerships
• Increase involvement in multi-stakeholder partnerships

To achieve carbon-neutrality in its own operations, first step is to invest in fossil-free electricity and energy efficiency, ensuring its facilities are as
efficient as possible.
The Company has continued to use 100% fossil-free electricity in its own operations, showing fast progress in achieving its Sustainability 2030 target of
becoming carbon-neutral in own operations.
Replacing diesel generators with solar panels to power its site offices is an example of commitment towards carbon-neutral goals across the value
chain. As part of a carbon-neutral initiative, the Company has introduced rooftop solar for the electrification of a project site office at 4 more project
sites and at its factory in Maneja in this financial year. The Company has switched over to clean piped natural gas from high-speed diesel for ovens &
dryers at manufacturing facilities.

38

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

VIII. Details of the highest authority responsible for
implementation and oversight of the Business
Responsibility policy (ies).

Nuguri Venu, Managing Director & CEO

Yes, Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Committee (constituted w.e.f.
October 22, 2021)
IX. Does the entity have a specified Committee of the
Board/ Director responsible for decision making on
sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide
details.

Composition of Committee:
Ms. Nishi Vasudeva* (DIN:03016991)
Chairperson of Committee - Independent Director (Non-Executive Director)
Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (DIN:06629992)
Member of Committee - Independent Director (Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN:08596097)
Member of the Committee - Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Company
Mr. Nuguri Venu (DIN:07032076)
Member of Committee - Executive Director (Managing Director and CEO)

*Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) has resigned from the position of Independent Director and Ms. Meena Ganesh (DIN: 00528252) has been appointed as Additional Director
in the capacity of Independent Director of the Company effective from May 24, 2023. Pursuant to this, the Committee has been reconstituted by inducting Ms. Meena Ganesh as
Chairperson of the Committee.

X. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for review

Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director/
Committee of the Board / Any other Committee

Frequency

P1

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6 P7 P8

P9

(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly / Any other - please specify)
P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

Performance against the
above policies and follow
up action

Yes

On a need basis

Compliance with
statutory requirements
of relevance to
the principles, and
rectification of any noncompliances

The Company is in compliance with all the applicable
statutory requirements.

On a need basis

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

XI. Has the entity carried out independent Assessment
/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external
agency? Yes/No. If yes, provide name of agency.

P6

P7

P8

P9

P8

P9

P8

P9

No

XII. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Not Applicable
Questions

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

The entity does not consider the Principles material to its
business (Yes/No)
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to
formulate and implement the policies on specified principles
(Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and
technical resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)

SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are
expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed
by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and ethically responsible.

PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner
that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Integrity, transparency and accountability
The Company’s Code of Conduct is the framework that explains the behavior, the Company expects of every employee and
stakeholder who work with it. The Company’s Code of Conduct provides a framework to put business principles into practice
with utmost integrity. It is a breach of the Company’s Code of Conduct to fail to report a violation or suspected violation that
employees know about or to refuse to cooperate with the investigation of a suspected violation. Each employee is responsible
for ensuring that his or her conduct and the conduct of anyone reporting to the employee fully comply with all applicable laws
and the Company’s Code of Conduct. Hitachi Energy has developed and implemented a systematic approach designed to
prevent, detect and resolve any potential integrity concerns. This is supported by tools and processes and a zero-tolerance
policy for any violations.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

39

The Company’s integrity program has created an environment where all its employees can open about identifying risks, asking
questions, and raising concerns. This is in line with the Group using a systematic approach, designed to foster a culture of
integrity and compliance. This is carried out through leadership and business accountability, supported by strong tools and
processes, and a zero-tolerance policy for violations. As a part of the integrity program, employees of the Company are not just
encouraged but are required to speak up and to report any suspected or observed violations of the law, the Company’s Code
of Conduct, or if they are asked to do something that might be a violation. They are to report on any of their concerns initially to
their direct manager or country head of integrity or country human resources manager, or alternatively, through country specific
business ethics hotline numbers and e-mail which is routed to the Office of Special Investigations (OSI). The Company’s OSI
along with the integrity team then work towards investigation, and resolution of issues reported there in. The Company has
multiple reporting channels available to all its employees/stakeholders and this includes a business ethics hotline and an email
id that is available for employees to report integrity and compliance concerns or seek guidance. There is a web-based reporting
system available for employee/ stakeholders reporting (How do I report | Hitachi Energy - https://www.hitachienergy.com/aboutus/integrity/reporting-channels/how-do-i-report). All reports received are subjected to appropriate investigation, follow up, and
brought to full closure; systematic process and tracking system and the Company enforces a rigorous non-retaliation policy.
The Company’s Anti-Corruption Policy is stated explicitly in the Corporate Regulations on Bribery and Anti-Corruption and
emphasizes key components that are essential for ensuring strict compliance to anti-bribery laws but also refraining from
corruption. The Company enforces a rigorous zero-tolerance policy against any involvement in bribery or corruption and has
put in place robust policies to prevent bribery such as on gifts, entertainment and expenses, charitable contributions and
representatives, and measures to ensure ethical supply chains.
The Company also ensures continuous compliance with competition and antitrust laws. The Company’s Code of Conduct
requires the Company to compete fairly, safeguard confidential information and be mindful of antitrust risks. The Company’s
behavior within its teams, with customers, other business partners and in the communities where it operates, are guided by
its business principles - respect, responsibility and determination - in compliance with antitrust requirements. The Anti-Trust
Guidance Notes aims to address practical business situations and provide rules and guidance for all Company employees on
how to conduct themselves in order to comply with antitrust requirements. The Company has an Internal Complaints Committee
for the prevention of sexual harassment as a part of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, 2013 that aims to provide protection against sexual harassment of women in the workplace and for prevention
and redressal of complaints of sexual harassment and for matters connected there with or incidentals thereto. The Company has
Internal Complaints Committee at each location and establishments (all locations where more than 10 women are employed).
Essential indicators
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:

Segment

Total number of training and Topics / principles covered under the training and
awareness programmes held its impact

% age of persons in
respective category
covered by the
awareness programmes

Independent Directors of the Company at the time of their appointment
are familiarized on the Company’s Core Values, Code of Conduct
including the purpose and the business it operates in.

Board of
Directors

1. (Familiarized at regular
intervals, in each board
meeting / leadership
discussion as specified in
the next column)

At each meeting of the Board/ Audit Committee, members also deliberate
on key integrity matters that helps to reflect and focus on key strategies.
As a part of Board, Audit, CSR and ESG, agenda members also discuss
various sustainable initiatives of the Company, including regulatory and
economic trends in the country.

100%

Executive and Non-Executive Directors being part of Hitachi Energy
group, also undergo familiarization on various topics like integrity,
sustainability, Human Rights, diversity and inclusion etc. at a group
leadership level.
As a result of all the above awareness, strong brand and governance
framework is put in place, which is helping us to become a more
focused, successful and value-creating Company.

1

Hitachi Group Ethics & Compliance training

100%

Key Managerial
Personnel

1

Hitachi Group Ethics & Compliance annual e-learning

100%

Employees
other than
BOD and KMP

1

Hitachi Group Ethics & Compliance annual e-learning

89%

Workers

19

Integrity Training

100%

40

2.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by
the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial
year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in
Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the
entity’s website):
Monetary
Particulars
Penalty/Fine

Name of the regulatory /
NGRBC Principle enforcement agencies/
judicial institutions
NIL

NIL

Amount in ₹

Brief of the case

Has an appeal been
preferred? Yes/No

NIL

NIL

NIL

Settlement

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

Compounding

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

Imprisonment

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

Punishment

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

Non-Monetary

3.

4.

Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary
or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case details

Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions

NA

NA

Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide
a web-link to the policy.
Hitachi Energy’s Anti-corruption policy is stated explicitly in its Corporate Regulation PGR-LI-02 on Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption and emphasizes key components which are essential to ensuring a strict compliance to anti-bribery
laws but also refraining from corruption because it’s the right thing to do.
https://www.hitachienergy.com/about-us/integrity/commitment
Hitachi Energy Limited is certified for ISO:37001:2016 for Anti-bribery management systems.

5.

6.

Number of Directors/ KMPs/ employees/ workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
Particulars

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

Directors

NIL

NIL

KMPs

NIL

NIL

Employees

NIL

NIL

Workers

NIL

NIL

Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
Particulars

7.

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period
Number

Remarks

Number

Remarks

Number of complaints received in relation to issue of conflict of Interest
of the Directors

NIL

-

NIL

-

Number of complaints received in relation to issue of conflict of Interest
of the KMPs

NIL

-

NIL

-

Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
Not applicable

Leadership Indicators
1.

Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
The Supplier Sustainability Development Program (SSDP) is supplier engagement to uphold human rights and decent
working conditions, ensure safe and environmentally sound operations and comply with relevant regulatory requirements
in supply chain. Sustainable and compliant suppliers reduce risk of disruption and negative brand impact. Additionally,
suppliers experience operational benefits like improved on-time delivery, reduced machine breakdown, increased
productivity and overall reduction in cost of manufacturing, thus becoming more efficient and effective.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

41

During financial year 2022-23, the Company has trained and assessed 14 high risk supplier partners on SSDP. Additionally,
during this period, the Company has trained and developed 7 of its internal people on SSDP, who have been certified by
Bureau Veritas as a lead assessor and are able to conduct the supplier assessments independently.
Total number of awareness
programmes held

Topics / principles covered under the
training

% age of value chain partners covered (by value of business done
with such partners) under the awareness programmes

NIL

2.

Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board?
(Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
Yes, the Company has in place a Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management and Company level Code of
Conduct and Related party transaction policy to report any conflict of interest beforehand. Further, conflict of interest can
also be flagged by any person through whistle blower mechanism.
There is an Integrity Team to handle any instance of conflict of interest reported related to any employee, Directors and
Management and outsiders, if required.

PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable
and safe
Hitachi Energy India strives to have a life-cycle perspective when managing environmental aspects and impact. This means
looking beyond the environmental impact from its own operations to include its supply chain, the use of its products, and the
end of their lives. Environmental considerations are constantly made to reduce environmental impact and risks over the lifespan
of its solutions. Life-cycle Assessments (LCAs) and risks as well as collaboration with and feedback from customers are used as
input for improving the environmental performance of its products, systems, and services.
For decades, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) has been the norm in the electrification industry due to its excellent insultation and
switching capabilities. However, it has high Global Warming Potential (GWP), and its life-cycle management requires careful
handling. As part of its commitment to reduce emissions and enable a sustainable energy future, Hitachi Energy has invested in
eco-efficient alternative solutions like EconiQ™ and enhanced SF6 life-cycle management striving for zero leaks. The Company
will improve SF6 management through the implementation of a new SF6 management standard.
The Company has implemented Environment Management System at all manufacturing & project sites as per ISO 14001:2015
and certified by accredited third party. Environmental impacts are assessed for all processes and mitigation measures are in place.
Essential Indicators
1.

Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the
entity, respectively.
The Company’s R&D activities are carried out in the global R&D and technology centers as well as R&D embedded in
the local businesses, leveraging its local competence for creating social, environmental, and economic value, globally.
Development of new products, features, localized products, and solutions secure as well as create additional revenue with
increased number of customer engagements and installed bases.
The R&D projects are run by Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd (which owns intellectual properties and technologies globally)
and the Company gets reimbursement of the cost by Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd. Therefore, there is no direct expense
incurred by the Company on these activities.
The Company is carrying out production-based R&D with use of Ester Oil against mineral for Transformer which provides
including biodegradability, higher flash point, higher thermal conductivity, lower calorific value and higher temperature
stability thus making transformers more environmentally friendly.
The Company has invested in Capex for upgrading and modernizing its production facilities to meet the customer and market
needs and support the Company’s carbon neutrality program. During the year under review, the Company has completed
major capex on upgrading thermic fluid heaters from Diesel to piped natural gas. A project was completed to bring the canal
surface water for production facilities to stop extracting the ground water. One of its facilities, Halol switched over to surface
water from ground water. This has decreased the water consumption by 15% as surface water is found to be of good quality
and has reduced RO plant operations. R&D teams are working on Digitalization of product’s use and monitoring.
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period

Details of improvements in environmental and social
impacts

R&D

NA

NA

R&D projects are executed by Hitachi Energy
Switzerland Ltd and implemented globally

Capex

65,00,000

NA

Switch over from Diesel to PNG and water reduction
projects

42

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

2.a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
Yes. The Company has set procedures to select suppliers, contractors and service providers based on their competence
and capability to undertake tasks and in compliance with the Hitachi Energy Supplier Code of Conduct which includes
health & safety, environment, ethics & integrity, human rights, working conditions among others. As a guiding principle, the
Company prefers to do business with compliant and sustainable suppliers. The Company has set procedures in place for
sustainable transportation as well. At the time of qualifying to become Company’s supplier, the vendor is assessed across
sustainability matrix.
Supplier Sustainability Development Program (SSDP), Responsible Mineral Sourcing, Produce Material compliance,
partnering with EcoVadis to conduct sustainability performance assessments of suppliers and reinforce a sustainable
supply chain are some of the measures taken to ensure sustainable sourcing across the business supply chains.
Supplier sustainability development program – Overview
Monitor
Performance

No
Supplier
selection

Supplier
training &
preparation

Supplier
Sustainability
Assessment

Corrective
Actions?

Yes

Yes
1st CAP
Closure
Audit

CAP
Closed?

No

Yes
2nd CAP
Closure
Audit

CAP
Closed?

No

Block
Supplier

Hitachi Energy power transformer sources the commodity’s raw materials from reputed and established global and local
suppliers which are engaged in long term business partnership ensuring the sustainability of the raw materials. Hitachi
energy Transformer follows global standards 1LAA 000048 and instructions for approving the suppliers for control of
hazardous substances / materials and follow corresponding safety guidelines. The Company has established process of
securing the yearly volume with close follow up by global commodity supply chain organization across globe.
b.

If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
In transformer business, the major components include transformer oil, electric steel, copper, insulation material which
comprises 80% of the total input which are sourced sustainably.
In high voltage products, 100% products are sourced from the suppliers who are sustainable and follow sustainable
practices. Suppliers are onboarded only after getting qualified through the Supplier Sustainability Development Program
(SSDP). Subsequently, suppliers also undergo assessment from Hitachi Energy.

3.

Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of
life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
Hitachi Energy India manufactures the transformer using biodegradable and environmentally friendly material which are
recyclable, reusable or disposable with specific processes. Solid insulation made from naturally occurring cellulose are
biodegradable as well as recyclable. Electrical Magnetic steel is recycled in multiple electrical applications in industry.
Manufacturing processes used for manufacturing transformers are also designed to be safe and environmentally friendly.
At the end of the life of the transformer, the qualified 3rd party agencies are involved in handling the transformer components
and ensuring the laid down recycling / disposal treatments.
Product manual specifically mentions to follow the local legislation or Hitachi Energy guideline whichever is stringent for
disposal of the product. Recovery of SF6 gas is to be done before disposal of the product containing SF6 gas.

4.

Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
Hitachi Energy India is not in business of producing plastic packaging material thus Extended Producer Responsibility
(EPR) requirements are not applicable. However, whatever plastic waste that gets generated during manufacturing is
collected and disposed off to state pollution control board approved recyclers.

Leadership Indicators
1.

Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
To understand the environmental impact of its products over their lifecycle, Hitachi Energy has performed LCAs for most
of its major products. Hitachi Energy has internal capabilities to do LCAs as per ISO 14040 and ISO 14044.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

43

The LCAs are done and results are owned by Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd. The learnings are deployed as improvement.

2.

% of total
Turnover
contributed

Boundary for which the
Life Cycle Perspective
/ Assessment was
conducted

NIC
Code

Name of Product / Service

27102

Transformer including Distribution
80% of transformer For end user of the
Transformer / Power Transformer
business unit
product
and Traction Transformer

Results communicated
Whether conducted by
in public domain
independent external
(Yes/No). If yes, provide
agency (Yes/No)
the web-link.
No

No

If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of
your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other
means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Life-cycle Assessments (LCAs) and risks as well as collaboration with and feedback from customers are used as input for
improving the environmental performance of its products, systems, and services.
Manufacturing processes are environment friendly, however the LCA assessment are being done internally and the impacts
will be reviewed for social and environmental concerns.

3.

Name of Product / Service

Description of the risk / concern

Action Taken

Transformers including Power / Distribution
and Traction transformer

End of life disposal of Product

Decommissioning guidelines prepared

Instrument Transformers

Oil Spillage – Land Contamination / Water
Pollution

Preventive maintenance program in place, oil
collection trays, spill kit and safe disposal

Circuit Breakers

SF6 Leakage – Global Warming

SF6 Management system with mass balance
leakage sensors.

Gas Insulated & Hybrid Switchgear

SF6 Leakage – Global Warming

SF6 Management system with mass balance
leakage sensors.

Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Hitachi Energy India manufactures and delivers transformers to customers and for them, the transformers are large capital
assets and high level of product reliability requirements. Hence, the raw material used are prime grade complying with the
guaranteed parameters, and therefore Company has limited scope of use of recycled material. However, the Company
makes strong efforts to ensure minimum waste of raw material during production. SF6 gas from its products is recovered
and reused before the disposal of the product.
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
Indicate input material

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

NA

4.

Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled,
and safely disposed, as per the following format:
Most of the products are packed in wooden packing cases and delivered at customer site. Few specific materials are
packed in plastic and delivered along with wooden packing case. At the site, these become the customer’s property,
hence disposed by the customer to authorized recycler. Pollution Control Board authorization for the private customers for
safe and responsible disposal is checked.
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year

Particulars

5.

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

Re-Used

Recycled

Safely Disposed

Re-Used

Recycled

Safely Disposed

Plastics (including packaging)

-

-

-

-

-

-

E-waste

-

-

-

-

-

-

Hazardous waste

-

-

-

-

-

-

Other waste

-

-

-

-

-

-

Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Indicate product category
NIL

Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as %
of total products sold in respective category
NIL

44

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in
their value chains
People well-being
The Company continues to attract top talent due to its inclusive culture and the immense opportunities available for nurturing
their talent. The people strategy is aligned with the Company’s overall ambition to be a pioneering technology leader. This
requires a stable work environment in a growing market by maximizing the potential of the Company’s workforce. To ensure that
the Company continues to attract top talent, multiple employer branding initiatives were launched not limiting to career fairs,
recruitment drives, university connect programmes and internship opportunities. During the year, the Company has consistently
set a clear path to learn and adapt to perform better in the changing market situation with its enhanced performance management
and talent strategy, focusing on building a healthy pipeline by attracting, assessing and developing talent. In addition, persistent
attention to provide an inclusive environment to promote diversity in gender, age and culture, including opportunities for global
mobility, also form a part of the proactive plan to manage talent in key function areas. The Company’s competency has been
aligned with the business strategy. The Company recognized exceptional performance and behavior in line with organizational
values through its rewards and recognition programme. There was continuous focus on improving the diversity in the workforce
throughout the year. A diversity outreach programme was also launched to encourage rehiring of performers who may have left
their career for various reasons. The entire approach to wellbeing was based on increasing diversity, promoting inclusion and
recognizing performance. Multiple awareness sessions on health and wellbeing were organized in different office locations and
factories to create awareness. Annual medical check-ups and camps were set up through the year to promote physical wellbeing.
Career development and opportunities
Keeping a strong focus on talent pipeline development, The Company has embarked on a ‘Develop & Grow’ journey this year,
with the objective of enabling a powerful talent ecosystem that helps build and develop capabilities for the future. The Company
has built a new paradigm of ‘hybrid jobs’ that combine technology, domain and industry experience. This enables us to attract
skillsets that complement its growth paradigm. The Company is also reskilling its workforce through structured learning paths
and offering them a new-age skill identity through various talent assessments & customized learning to bridge skill gaps. The
Company continues to enable internal talent growth and development by offering open dialogues, having regular performance
and development reviews including structured feedback, knowledge transfer and other opportunities for enriching their career.
Talent redeployment has been encouraged by providing avenues for internal mobility through talent rotation when any new
opportunity of hire arises. Adding to this, opportunities to work on different projects locally and across geographies / businesses
have also been provided.
The Company encourages its employees to progress within the organization as opportunities arise. The organization has a
strong talent management process to evaluate the best of talent, encourage and provide career development opportunities
for promising employees through individual career development plans. Developing leaders internally continues to be a priority
for the Company & with that in mind, succession plans are developed for all critical roles in the organization post talent risk
assessments and engagement study.
Essential Indicators
1.

a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category

Total
(A)

Health insurance

Accident insurance

Maternity benefits

Paternity Benefits

Day Care facilities

Number
(B)

%
(B / A)

Number
(C)

Number
(D)

%
(D / A)

Number
(E)

%
(E / A)

Number
(F)

%
(C / A)

%
(F / A)

Permanent employees
Male

1614

1614

100%

1614

100%

NA

NA

1614

100%

153

9%

Female

151

151

100%

151

100%

151

100%

NA

NA

21

14%

Total

1765

1765

100%

1765

100%

151

100%

1614

100%

174

10%

Other than Permanent employees
Male

44

44

100%

44

100%

NA

NA

44

100%

5

11%

Female

20

20

100%

20

100%

20

100%

NA

NA

0

0

Total

64

64

100%

64

100%

20

100%

44

100%

5

8%

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

1.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

45

b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of workers covered by
Category

Total
(A)

Health insurance

Accident insurance

Maternity benefits

Paternity Benefits

Day Care facilities

Number
(B)

%
(B / A)

Number
(C)

%
(C / A)

Number
(D)

%
(D / A)

Number
(E)

%
(E / A)

Number
(F)

%
(F / A)

Permanent employees
Male

554

554

100%

554

100%

NA

NA

554

100%

37

7%

Female

4

4

100%

4

100%

4

100%

NA

NA

2

50%

Total

558

558

100%

558

100%

4

100%

554

100%

39

7%

4%

Other than Permanent employees

2.

Male

521

521

100%

521

100%

NA

NA

521

100%

20

Female

31

31

100%

31

100%

31

100%

NA

NA

0

0

Total

552

552

100%

552

100%

31

100%

521

100%

20

4%

Details of retirement benefits, for current FY and Previous Financial Period:
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year
Particulars

No. of employee No. of workers
covered as a % of covered as a %
total employees of total workers

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

Deducted and
No. of employee No. of workers
deposited with
covered as a % of covered as a %
the authority
total employees of total workers
(Y/N/N.A.)

Deducted and
deposited with
the authority
(Y/N/N.A.)

PF

100%

100%

Y

100%

100%

Y

Gratuity

100%

100%

Y

100%

100%

Y

ESI

3%

0%

Y

4%

0%

Y

Others-Superannuation

23%

0%

Y

30%

0%

Y

Note:

3.

•

There are 75 employees covered under ESI

•

Superannuation is an optional retirement benefit for employees and 535 employees have availed the scheme.

•

Superannuation & Gratuity is deposited with respective trusts.

Accessibility of workplaces
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements
of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
Yes, the premises / offices of the entity is accessible to differently abled employees and workers

4.

Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so,
provide a web-link to the policy.
The Company encourages diversity through global policy of Diversity 360 which involves inclusion. The Company does
not have a policy in specific for disabled employees.

5.

Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender

Permanent employees

Permanent workers

Return to work rate

Retention rate

Return to work rate

Retention rate

Male

100%

100%

100%

100%

Female

100%

100%

100%

100%

Total

100%

100%

100%

100%

126 employees have availed maternity/ paternity leaves and 100% of them have resumed work.
6.

Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and
worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes, there are multiple ways, the employees can report their concerns/ grievances. The employees may use the Ethics
helpline/dedicated email id, inform the Immediate reporting manager/ HR representative for the function or the country
Integrity officer, Internal committee – Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) etc.
The Grievances received are thoroughly examined and enquires are undertaken in the given time frame to resolve the same.

46

7.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Particulars

Yes/No
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)

Permanent workers

POSH policy, Ethics Global email

Other than permanent workers

POSH policy, Ethics Global email

Permanent employees

POSH policy, Ethics Global email

Other than permanent employees

POSH policy, Ethics Global email

Membership of employees and workers in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year
Particulars

8.

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period
No. of employees
Total employees
/ workers in
%
/ workers in
respective category, %
(B/A) respective category
who are part of
(C/D)
(C)
association(s) or
Unions (D)

No. of employees /
Total employees
workers in respective
/ workers in
category, who are part
respective category
of association(s) or
(A)
Unions (B)

Total permanent employees

1765

0

0

0

0

0

-Male

1614

0

0

0

0

0

-Female

151

0

0

0

0

0

Total permanent workers

558

558

100%

561

561

100

-Male

554

554

100%

557

557

100

-Female

4

4

100%

4

4

100

Details of training given to employees and workers:
Yes, all the Company employees underwent training on health & safety measures.
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year
Particulars
Total (A)

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

On health and safety
On skill upgradation
measures*
No. (B)

% (B/A)

No. (C)

% (C/A)

Total
(D)

On health and safety
On skill upgradation#
measures*
No. (E)

% (E/D)

No. (F)

% (F/D)

Employees
Male

1614

1614

100%

1614

100%

1578

100%

1188

75.3

Female

151

151

100%

151

100%

166

100%

129

77.7

Total

1765

1765

100%

1765

100%

1744

100%

1317

75.5

Male

554

554

100%

554

100%

557

100%

343

61.7

Female

4

4

100%

4

100%

4

100%

4

100

Total

558

558

100%

558

100%

561

100%

347

61.8

Workers

*Regular programs on health & safety measures are conducted for all employees and workers.
#Skill upgradation programs are conducted on a periodical basis.
#The casual/contractual employees are subjected to skill-based training depending on the work and job roles. Training matrix is designed
based on their job risk profiles. As and when required, refresher trainings are provided to upgrade skills based on any changes in the work/
job profiles of employees.

9.

Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Particulars

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year
Total (A)

No. (B)

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

% (B/A)

Total (C )

No. (D)

% (D/C)

Employees
-Male

1614

1366

85%

1846

1409

76.33%

-Female

151

109

72%

179

106

59.22%

Total

1765

1475

84%

2025

1515

74.81%

Workers
-Male

-

-

-

-

-

-

-Female

-

-

-

-

-

-

Total

-

-

-

-

-

-

Above numbers for employees are based on the Annual Salary Revision eligibility of the financial year.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

47

At Hitachi Energy India, Non-Management Staff (NMS) are also eligible for meritorious increment /promotion according
to practice of respective location in addition to normal increment. This practice differs based on the location and terms
agreed with the Union. Details given below:

10.

11.

1.
Peenya:
		

Appraisal period April to March
Each workman eligible for promotion after every 3rd year

2.
Mysore:
		

Appraisal period January to December
All NMS eligible for promotion once in 4 years.

3.
Maneja:
		

Appraisal period April to March
35% of total strength eligible for promotion & 15% for increment every year.

Health and safety management system:
a.

Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity?
(Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage such system?
Yes, occupational health & safety management system has been implemented as per ISO 45001:2018 and certified.

b.

What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine
basis by the entity?
Activity based risk assessment (ABRA) is conducted for all activities which present a risk to HSE. As part of ABRA,
hazards are identified for the activity and risks are assessed. All hazards are reported by the Company and contract
employees to their line managers and entered in the global HSE/SA MIS system.

c.

Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from
such risks. (Y/N)
Yes

d.

Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services?
(Yes/ No)
Yes

Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident / Number

Category

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year

Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one
Million-person hours worked)

Employees

0.08

0

Workers

0.72

0.3

Total recordable work-related injuries

No. of fatalities
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health
(excluding fatalities)

12.

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

Employees

1

1

Workers

14

10

Employees

0

0

Workers

0

0

Employees

0

0

Workers

0

0

Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
As an organization, the Company has established a very strong focus on safety and have helped its employees stay
healthy – both, physically and mentally. Its targets for 2030 include zero harm – through rigorous risk assessments and
training – and top-quartile health absence rates. The following measures were taken amongst others to ensure a safe and
healthy workplace:
•

HSE Management system has been implemented as per ISO 14001 & 45001 and continual improvements are done.

•

Activity based risk assessment is conducted for all activities which present a risk to HSE. Activity Based Risk
Assessments (ABRA) are reviewed when there is an identified control failure (e.g., incident, audit or inspection or
should significant change occur (e.g., to the task, process, substances, resources, or technology) that may affect
the hazards and risks.

•

HSE training - Training plans are developed based on the assessment of the current level of competence and
awareness. Trainings are in consideration of individual capabilities and cultural aspects. All trainings shall consider
the differing levels of responsibility, risks, ability, language skills and literacy. All relevant staff and persons working
on behalf of the Company shall participate in trainings as defined in the training plan.

•

The Life Saving Rules (LSRs) apply to all employees and contractors regardless of work location or their role.
Life-saving rules – eLearning is mandatory for Hitachi Energy employees.

48

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

13.

•

During the year under review, 9 electrical safety awareness programs were organized for employees and contractors
who perform an electrical work. 230 employees were trained, assessed & certified in these programs.

•

Hazards and control measures are communicated before start of the activity and monitored to ensure that controls
are implemented. All hazards are reported by the Company and contractor employees to their line managers and
entered in the global HSE/SA MIS system. Responsible managers are aware of their top five risks and, considering
these in conjunction with their top five incident categories, develop appropriate campaigns or action plans for
reducing the risks and managing those areas for improvement.

•

All machinery and equipment used by Company personnel and contractors for work being performed by or on behalf
of Company must be suitable and fit for the intended purpose and use. The frequency for inspection of machinery
and equipment is determined by assessment of the risks in the use of that equipment, the environment in which the
equipment is used or operates and the manufacturers’ recommended schedule.

•

Internal & external audits are carried out to check the adequacy of systems, procedures, and controls that are implemented.

•

Management reviews the status of the HSE Management System with regard to suitability, effectiveness and
adequacy and opportunities for improvement.

Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:

Particulars

14.

15.

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year
Filed during
the year

Pending resolution
at the end of year

Working conditions

0

Health & Safety

0

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period
Filed during
the year

Pending resolution
at the end of year

0

0

0

0

0

0

Remarks

Remarks

Assessments for the year:
Particulars

% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity
or statutory authorities or third parties)

Health and safety practices

100 %

Working conditions

100 %

Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
Many corrective actions but not limited to the following were taken to address safety related incidents and on significant
risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
•

All incidents are investigated as per the classification and corrective actions implemented to prevent its recurrence.

•

Life-saving rules – eLearning training is made mandatory for all employees. 10 life-saving rules focus on eradicating
fatal and life-changing injuries resulting from its most critical risk activities.

•

Preparation of a Lift plan in case of all critical lift as per the mechanical lifting standard. The mechanical lifting
standard to have more clarity added around when Lift Plans are required.

•

Ensuring barrier/exclusion zones are sufficient, if unable, add alternate controls to provide safety redundancy. Clear
and effective communication between crane operator & signaler to be validated (visual, signals, radio, etc…)

•

Standard vehicle inspection checklist is introduced to ensure entry of healthy vehicles into the facility.

•

Mandatory electrical competency training for all contract workers working in switchyard irrespective of the work
they perform.

•

Proper work planning when working on weekend / holidays. The approval must take care of High-risk activities
planned and supervision available.

•

Even though every activity is controlled by an ABRA but since ABRA is often performed in advance before the actual
activity is started. The Stop! Take 5 addresses things that can change or be different just before, or during, the
activity, e.g., weather conditions, work area, location of activity, personnel available, etc.

•

Country Level Health Survey was conducted with an aim to collect relevant information pertaining to Occupational
Health and Industrial Hygiene. The outcome shall be used to design various initiatives to improve working
environment.

•

Training of employees and workers to enhance their knowledge and consultation with employees to increase their
participation in risk management.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

49

Leadership Indicators
1.

Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N).
(A) Employees – Yes
(B) Workers – Yes

2.

Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited
by the value chain partners.
Periodic compliance audit of the Company’s value chain partners is done for ensuring that the statutory dues are paid
properly. Awareness sessions are also being conducted on latest practices.

3.

Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health /
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
None of the employee /workers have suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health / fatalities in current and
previous financial year who require rehabilitation.
Total Number of affected Employees /
Workers

Particulars

No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated and placed
in suitable employment or whose family members have
been placed in suitable employment

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 - March 31, 2022 April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 - March 31, 2022
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period

4.

Employee

0

0

NIL

NIL

Workers

0

0

NIL

NIL

Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management
of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
No

5.

6.

Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Particulars

% of value chain partners (by value of business done with
such partners) that were assessed

Health and Safety Practice

100%

Working Condition

100%

Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
The responsible manager ensures compliance regarding all legal country, state or local regulations. Value chain partners/
contract workers are trained and authorized to perform the assigned task and ensured each worker adheres to all
applicable HSE rules and site procedures of the Company.

PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all
its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
Sustainability performance forms an important basis for the Company’s dialogue with its stakeholders. A comprehensive dialogue
with key stakeholders and its inputs and feedback enabled Hitachi Energy to revisit its materiality matrix and develop the next
level 2030 objectives. The Sustainability 2030 Objectives are established by the Group and the legal entity has incorporated the
same along with the local objectives.
The Company had dialogues with various Government entities central and state with regards to policy and presentation on the
Company’s innovative sustainable solutions such as electric vehicle charging and “Make-in-India”, smart cities, sustainable
mobility solutions, energy efficiency, efficiency upgradation in the railways sector, renewable energy, growth developments &
technology keeping the climate change, job skilling, etc. The Company also carried out its Supplier Sustainable Development
Program (SSDP) across chosen vendors.
The Supplier Sustainability Development Program (SSDP) is supplier engagement to uphold human rights and decent working
conditions, ensure safe and environmentally sound operations and comply with relevant regulatory requirements in supply chain.

50

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Sustainable and compliant suppliers reduce risk of disruption and negative brand impact. Additionally, suppliers experience
operational benefits like improved on-time delivery, reduced machine breakdown, increased productivity, and overall reduction
in cost of manufacturing, thus becoming more efficient and effective. In the year 2022-23, as a part of supplier sustainability
development program, the Company assessed 10 suppliers within India. Further, the Company has been able to reduce the risk
level of 13 suppliers open since past years.
As a part of continuous improvement in supplier sustainability, the Company has introduced a program to monitor and improve
greenhouse gases emissions originating in the Company’s suppliers. In this direction, the Company has collaborated with its
third-party service providers M/s Bureau Veritas, to provide training to its key suppliers to identify, measure and monitor the
emission levels within their area of manufacturing. The pilot program is planned to be implemented within Q1 of 2023-24 and full
implementation to be completed by Q4 2023-24.
The Company during the period also organized several customer engagement events to bring the Company’s technologies
closer to the customers. The Company organized multiple customer connect programs on HSE/SA, to hear to the voice of the
customer to further improve the performance and to include the inputs of the customer into the strategy of the Company.
1.

Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
Leadership teams across businesses and functions review various audiences - primary to tertiary - to identify
- those that we have most interactions and exchanges
- those whom we impact economically and socially, and vice versa
- with whom we create value and enable the energy transition
- communities and those whom we can support
These groups have been classified broadly as our key stakeholders, as listed below.

2.

List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder
group.
Stakeholder
group

Whether identified Channels of Communication
Frequency of
Purpose and scope of engagement
as Vulnerable
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, engagement (Annually/
including key topics and concerns
& Marginalized
Advertisement, Community Meetings, Half yearly/ Quarterly/
raised during such engagement
Group (Yes/No)
Notice Board, Website), Other
Others-please specify)

Business
Knowledge sharing
Customers

No

Suppliers

No

Investors

No

Emails
Meetings, Trainings Webinars
Development programs
Meetings & Emails

Email, newspaper advertisement,
Boards’ report, quarterly financials,
annual financials, website, analyst
call, annual general meeting

Ad hoc

Presentation of innovative sustainable
solutions

Annual Ongoing

Supplier Sustainable Development
program

Annual, quarterly and
on a need basis

Welfare of investors by management of
business operations in best possible
way, timely identification of risks and its
mitigation and imbibed with principles of
integrity and sustainability in all aspects
of the Company
Business performance
Annual general meeting, Analysts call

HSE & Sustainability Programs &
trainings
Employees

No

Townhalls

Ongoing

Communication & feedback

Employee welfare programs
Emails
Seminars
Competitors

No

Industry events

Event based

Networking & knowledge sharing

& Associations
Government
Government and
regulators

No

Meetings

Need based

Presentation of innovative sustainable
solutions

Legislators and
the law

No

Meetings

Need based

Compliances

Trade bodies

No

Seminars & conferences

Event based

Networking & knowledge sharing

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

51

Civil society
International
organizations

No

Meetings

Ad hoc

Partner for Sustainability programs

Local
communities

Yes

Community Meetings

Ongoing

Engagement for CSR activities

Academia
and scientific
community

No

Seminars Meetings, Campus connect
programs

Ad hoc

R&D and educational partnerships

Media

No

Meetings, Press Release, and events

Quarterly

Thought leadership, Communication &
branding

NGOs and
civil society
organizations,
trade unions

No

Interactions & Meetings

Ad hoc

Implementation of CSR projects
Employee welfare

Leadership Indicators
1.

Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
Investors - Annual general meeting and analysts call.

2.

Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and
social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these
topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
Not applicable

3.

Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/
marginalized stakeholder groups.
Yes. the Company has identified vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholder groups and is providing support to the beneficiaries
through CSR projects.

PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights

The Company’s values are rooted in respect, including respect for the human rights of every single person who works for or with
us. Respecting and promoting human rights in its business activities is one of its priorities in its community’s impact area. Hitachi
Energy India recognizes that respect for human rights is a basic requirement and that failure to do so can cause harm to people
and adversely affect business, with potential legal, financial and reputational consequences.
The Company follows its Human Rights Policy and a Social Policy to respect human rights and to avoid causing or contributing
to adverse human rights impacts through own activities. The policy draws on the Universal Declaration of human rights, the
International Labour Organization (ILO) core conventions on labor standards, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, UN Sustainable
Development Goals (SDG) and the Social Accountability (SA) 8000 standard. All employees have access to the human rights
e-learning, which describes the human rights principles and risks for the Company. The Company has made a provision that
employees shall report any human rights risk or violation that might occur during projects, services and operations of the
Company. Human Rights performance are being monitored based on relevant indicators to evaluate and to prevent human rights
impacts in all of the Company’s operations and workplaces. The Company’s Human Rights and Social Policies specifically refer
to the ILO core conventions as the minimum to be achieved, with respect to non-discrimination, prohibition of child and enforced
labor, freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining. The United Nations (UN) guiding principles are
central to the Company’s human rights training. A global awareness-raising program for all, on understanding how the Company
can potentially impact human rights, the importance of due diligence and how the Company is embedding human rights in
business processes, a global capacity building program is under way.
During the year under review, the Company has not received any grievances related to human rights. The Company seeks to
raise its standards, and increase its understanding, and mitigation of human rights risks.

52

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Essential Indicators
1.

Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in
the following format:

Particulars

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

Total
(A)

No. of employees /
workers covered (B)

%
(B/A)

Total
(C)

No. of employees /
%
workers covered (D) (C/D)

Permanent

1765

1765

100%

Other than permanent

64

64

100%

Employees were given induction training on policies before starting
their work

Total employees

1829

1829

100%

All the employees were covered

Permanent

558

558

100%

Other than permanent

552

552

100%

Workers were given induction training on policies before starting
their work

Total workers

1110

1110

100%

All the employees were covered

Employees

Workers

2.

Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year
Particulars
Total (A)

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

Equal to
Minimum wage

More than
minimum wage

No. (B)

% (B/A)

No. (C) % (C/A)

Total (D)

Equal to
Minimum wage
No . (E) % (E/D)

More than
minimum wage
No. (F)

% (F/D)

Employees
Permanent
Male

1614

0

0

1614

100%

Female

151

0

0

151

100%

1706 - Minimum wages paid, as per the respective state
provisions and same is followed for female employees

Other than Permanent
Male

44

0

0

44

100%

Female

20

0

0

20

100%

38 - Minimum wages paid, as per the respective state
provisions and same is followed for female employees

Workers
Permanent
Male

554

0

0

554

100%

Female

4

0

0

4

100%

Male

521

0

0

521

100%

Female

31

0

0

31

100%

561 - Minimum wages paid, as per the respective state
provisions and same is followed for female employees

Other than Permanent

3.

661 - Minimum wages paid, as per the respective state
provisions and same is followed for female employees

Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
Male
Particulars

4.

Number

Female

Median remuneration / salary /
wages of respective category

Number

Median remuneration / salary /
wages of respective category

Board of Directors (BOD)

2

27,826,249.89

2

Key managerial personnel (KMP)

3

13,352,568.93

0

NA

Employees other than BOD and KMP

1885

968,525

199

753,598

Workers

602

1,061,042

6

856,259.48

Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
Yes

5.

4,585,000

Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
– The Company has Internal committees for redressal of various grievances.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

6.

53

Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:

Particulars

7.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year
Filed during Pending resolution
year
at the end of the year

Remarks

Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period
Filed during Pending resolution
year
at the end of the year

Sexual harassment

0

0

0

0

Discrimination at workplace

0

0

0

0

Child labour

0

0

0

0

Forced labour / Involuntary labour

0

0

0

0

Wages

0

0

0

0

Other human rights related issues

0

0

0

0

Remarks

Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
Policies are made and awareness have been given to employees on the same.

8.

Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
Yes

9.

Assessments for the year:
Particulars

% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory
authorities or third parties)

Child labour

100%

Forced/Involuntary labour

100%

Sexual harassment

100%

Discrimination at workplace

100%

Wages

100%

Others-please specify

10.

-

Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the
assessments at Question 9 above.
Not applicable

Leadership Indictors
1.

Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.
No such incidents/requirements so far.

2.

Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.

3.

Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Provisions are available.

4.

5.

Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Particulars

% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners)
that were assessed

Sexual harassment

100%

Discrimination at workplace

100%

Child labour

100%

Forced Labour / Involuntary labour

100%

Wages

100%

Others-please specify

100%

Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the
assessments at Question 4 above.
No such risk/ concerns.

54

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect
and restore the environment
Hitachi Energy is a global technology leader that is advancing a sustainable energy future for all. The Company serves customers in
the utility, industry and infrastructure sectors with innovative solutions and services across the value chain. Together with customers
and partners, the Company pioneers technologies and enable the digital transformation required to accelerate the energy transition
towards a carbon-neutral future. Hitachi Energy is advancing the world’s energy system to become more sustainable, flexible and
secure whilst balancing social, environmental and economic values.
To meet the changing needs of a growing population and limit global warming to 1.5 degrees, large-scale volumes of variable energy
generated from renewable sources need to be efficiently integrated into the world’s energy system. To facilitate the deployment of
technology at the scale and speed required, the Company believes that it must adapt and adopt new business models and collaborate
with all stakeholders to support sustainable, flexible and secure energy systems such as power grids. As more renewable power sources
join to gradually replace carbon-based energy, the Company needs to ensure that its grids remain resilient, and become more flexible as
they adapt to fast-changing demands and increasing decentralization. Only through effective digitalization of all elements of the energy
value chain can this be delivered. While making energy more accessible, affordable, and sustainable, the Company also needs better
energy efficiency at all stages of distribution and a reduced environmental footprint throughout the life cycle of all components.
Sustainability 2030 is a strategic plan for sustainability where Hitachi Energy summarizes the main commitments to act and drive
business in a sustainable way. Based around four pillars: Planet, People, Peace and Partnerships.
Looking ahead, Hitachi Energy is continuing to invest in its journey towards carbon-neutrality by further increasing energy
efficiency, as well as electrifying its own operations.
Together with customers, partners, and key stakeholders, Hitachi Energy is contributing to accelerating the energy transition to
ensure a sustainable energy future for all.
Essential Indicators
1.

Details of total energy consumption (in Giga Joules) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period

Total electricity consumption (A)

1,78,298

2,14,957

Total fuel consumption (B)**

2,15,061

2,80,262*

12,510

26

Total energy consumption (A+B+C)

4,05,869

4,95,245

Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumption/turnover
in rupees)

0.000009

0.00001

Energy consumption through other sources (C)

Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity

* Corrected fuel consumption (Conversion factor updated)
** Fuel consumption does not include the fuels consumed from fleet operations.

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, GHG (Green House Gas) emission assessment done by DNV in 2021 (for the financial year January 01, 2020 to
December 31, 2020).
2.

Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme
have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
Not applicable

3.

Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period

Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i) Surface water

2,41,069

2,27,099

(ii) Groundwater

1,92,164

2,51,160

6,030

14,427

(iv) Sea water / desalinated water

0

0

(v) Others

0

0

(iii) Third party water

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

55

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period

Parameter
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kiloliters) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)

4,39,263

Total volume of water consumption (in kiloliters)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity

4,92,686

2,43,032

2,90,479

0.0000054

0.0000059

-

-

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
No
4.

Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and
implementation.
Yes. The Company has taken various initiatives for water conservation to reduce freshwater consumption and installed efficient
wastewater treatment systems at its manufacturing sites. In line with Zero Liquid Discharge approach, many of it’s units are
recycling treated wastewater for gardening as well as flushing purpose. The focus is to reduce wastewater economically and
produce clean water that is suitable for reuse (e.g., irrigation), thereby saving money and being environment friendly.

5.

Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter

Please
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
specify unit
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period

NOx

PPM

Complied

Complied

SOx

PPM

Complied

Complied

Particulate matter (PM)

µg/m3

Complied

Complied

NA

NA

Complied

NA

NA

NA

-

-

Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)

µg/m3

Hazardous air pollutant (HAP)
Others – please specify

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, Environment assessment done by Pollution Control Board approved Laboratory in respective states.
6.

Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following
format:
Parameter

Please specify unit

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period

Total Scope 1 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs,
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)

Metric tonnes of
CO2 equivalent

25,083

31,338

Total Scope 2 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs,
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)

Metric tonnes of
CO2 equivalent

107

23,763

Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of
turnover

0.0000006

0.0000011

Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by
the entity

-

-

Note: Total scope 2 emissions are calculated considering International Renewable Energy Certification (I-REC) procured
for electricity consumed.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, GHG (Green House Gas) emission assessment done by DNV in 2021 (for the financial year January 01, 2020 to
December 31, 2020).
7.

Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
By 2030, Hitachi Energy aims to achieve carbon-neutrality in its own operations. Hitachi Energy is targeting to reduce
carbon emissions by 50% along the value chain and reducing waste – along with its use of precious resources, like water.

56

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

The Company continues to maintain 100% fossil free electricity consumption in its own operations. By achieving 100%
fossil-free electricity in its own operations, the Company have reduced its CO2 equivalent emissions by more than 42%
compared to previous year.
The Company did this through projects generating own fossil-free electricity, such as installing solar roof panels, switching
electricity contracts to green tariffs, buying International Renewable Energy Certificates (IRECs), and signing Power
Purchase Agreements (PPA).
To increase its share of renewable energy, 938KW of solar panel installations at Maneja is in progress and out of which 292
KW is commissioned & operational. The Company introduced rooftop solar for the electrification of a project site office
previous year and installed roof top solar at 4 more project sites in this financial year.
The Company continued to maintain focus on remaining parts of the operations – where fossil fuel is directly used. To
substitute HSD fuel with environment friendly PNG, projects were implemented in Thermic fluid heaters/Thermo-Pac
boilers and completed in PT F2, IT & Traction factory.
The Company is continuing to invest in its journey towards carbon-neutrality by further increasing energy efficiency, as
well as electrifying its own operations.
The Company’s ambition extends beyond carbon-neutrality. The Company is working to reduce waste – along with its
consumption of precious resources, like freshwater. The Company will support SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and
Production) and SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation). The Company will minimize the use of water, materials, pollution, and
waste in its operations and throughout the life cycle of its solutions through a circular mindset.
8.

Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period

Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)

117.0

100.2

E-waste (B)

14.19

15.69

Bio-medical waste (C)

0.046

0.44

0.0

0.01

Battery waste (E)

14.57

3.19

Radioactive waste (F)

0.00

0.00

Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
(Used Oil, Resin, oily quartz & papers, glass wool, discarded containers)

314.34

373

Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
(Ferrous - MS & SS) & Nonferrous (Copper, Aluminum) Wood waste & dust)
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)

7676.62

7479

Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)

8136.77

7972

Construction and demolition waste (D)

For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Recycled

0

0

(ii) Re-used

0

0

(iii) Other recovery operations

0

0

Total

0

For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Incineration

91.2

70

(ii) Landfilling

3335.4

3410

(iii) Other disposal operations

4692.2

4491

Total

8118.8

7971

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
yes, name of the external agency.
No, Periodic audits are done by DNV as per ISO 14001: 2015.
9.

Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted
by your Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the
practices adopted to manage such wastes.
Managing waste from its own operations has been the Company’s priority and has been continuously improved through
the Company management system standard for waste management.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

57

Integration of sustainability considerations in Research & Development (R&D) gate models to ensure that Health, Safety,
and Environment are considered and understood when assessing R&D projects.
Reducing generations of waste and waste that are sent for final disposal remains the Company’s focal area. Waste
reduction is incorporated in the product design stage to ensure waste minimization in manufacturing process. Source
segregation of waste, in-house recycling of packaging materials and reuse continues to add more value to waste and
reduces the quantum of non-recyclable wastes that are sent to landfills. All wastes are sent to relevant Pollution Control
Board (PCB) authorized recyclers. Waste disposal is increased due to one-time waste of a power capacitor factory which
is relocated from Peenya to Doddaballapur in Bangalore.
10.

If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where
environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
Not applicable
S. No.

11.

Location of
Type of operations
operations / offices

Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance are being complied
with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.

Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
current financial year:
Not applicable
Name and brief details
of project

12.

EIA Notification
No.

Date

Whether conducted by
independent external agency
(Yes / No)

Results communicated in
public domain
(Yes / No)

Relevant
Web link

Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment Protection Act
and Rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
Yes, the Company has complied with the applicable environmental laws/ regulations/ guidelines in India.
S. No.

Specify the law / regulation / guidelines
which was not complied with

Provide details of the
non-compliance

Any fines / penalties / action taken by
regulatory agencies such as pollution
control boards or by courts

Corrective action
taken if any

Leadership Indicators
1.

Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or it’s multiples) from renewable and non-renewable
sources, in the following format:
Parameter

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period

From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A) #
Total fuel consumption (B)
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)

1,77,853.65

1,07,218

0

0

2.65

0

1,77,856.30

1,07,218

From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
Total fuel consumption (E)*
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)

464

1,07,739

2,15,061

2,80,262

12,448

26

2,27,973

3,88,051

# Total electricity consumption from renewable source consists of renewable energy from solar power, PPAs with third party & purchasing
of International Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECs).
*Fuel consumption does not include the fuels consumed from fleet operations.

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, GHG (Green House Gas) emission assessment done by DNV in 2021 (for the financial year January 01, 2020 to
December 31, 2020).

58

2.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Provide the following details related to water discharged:
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Jan 1, 2021 – March 31, 2022
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Period

Parameter
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) To Surface water

1,33,995

- No treatment
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment*

23,915

0

0

1,33,995

23,915

(ii) To Groundwater

0

0

- No treatment

0

0

- With treatment - please specify level of treatment

0

0

(iii) To Seawater

0

0

- No treatment

0

0

- With treatment - please specify level of treatment

0

0

(iv) Sent to third - parties
- No treatment
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(v) Others

Total water discharged (in kilolitres)

0
0

0

0

62,336

1,78,291

- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment*

0
0

0

0

62,336

1,78,291

1,96,331

2,02,206

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of
the external agency.
*Water treatment is done before discharge of water to meet quality requirements as per conditions of consent to operate.

3.

Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
(i)

(ii)

(iii)

Name of the area:
1)

Maneja Village, Vadodara (Semi Critical) *

2)

Peenya Industrial Area, Bangalore Urban (Over exploited) *

Nature of operations:
1)

Manufacturing of Transformers, Bushings & Breakers

2)

Manufacturing of control panels, sub-station automation system & grid automation products

Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year

Jan 1, 2021 - March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

(i) Surface water

0

0

(ii) Groundwater

1,77,462

2,20,561

858

565.6

(iv) Seawater / desalinated water

0

0

(v) Others

0

0

Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)

1,78,320

2,21,126.6

Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)

1,09,328

1,35,050

-

-

6,756

11,946

Parameter
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)

(iii) Third party water

Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) Into Surface water
- No treatment

0

0

6,756

11,946

(ii) Into Groundwater

0

0

- No treatment

0

0

- With treatment - please specify level of treatment

0

0

- With treatment - please specify level of treatment

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

59

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year

Jan 1, 2021 - March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

(iii) Into Seawater

0

0

- No treatment

0

0

- With treatment - please specify level of treatment

0

0

0

0

0

0

Parameter

(iv) Sent to third-parties
- No treatment
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(v) Others

0

0

62,236

74,130

- No treatment
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)

0

0

62,236

74,130

68,992

86,076

*As per Block wise Ground Water Resource Assessment -2020 by Central Ground Water Board

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
No
4.

Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
The Company has developed the criteria for measurement and calculation of emissions of relevant categories as per GHG
protocol guidance. The scope 3 emission of significant categories shall be reported from FY 2023-24 onwards.
Parameter
Total Scope 3 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6,
NF3, if available)

Unit

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year

Jan 1, 2021 - March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

-

-

-

-

Metric tonnes of
CO2 equivalent

Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the relevant
metric may be selected by the entity

-

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
yes, name of the external agency.
No
5.

With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and
remediation activities.
Not applicable

6.

7.

If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the
same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any,
may be provided along-with summary)

Outcome of the initiative

Switch over to PNG (Piped Natural Gas) from HSD
(High Speed Diesel) for heating

No

CO2 emission reduction

Switched over to Surface water from ground water
at Halol

No

Reduction in water
consumption

S. No.

Initiative undertaken

1
2
3

Installed VFDs in Air handling units

No

Energy saving

4

Increased the capacity of solar installation

No

CO2 emission reduction

Does the entity have a Business Continuity and Disaster Management Plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
Yes, Business Continuity Planning (BCP) is a part of Hitachi Energy’s organizational resilience program. It is designed to
reduce the impact of a business interruption which could occur due to a range of events ranging from financial, natural
causes or man-made events. It helps business unit/function to respond effectively to the disruption and restore its essential
services and mission critical processes as quickly as possible to ensure timely recovery. It provides a reference tool for
the actions required during or immediately following an emergency or incident that threatens to disrupt business unit/
functions normal business activities.

60

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

The key objectives of this business continuity plan are to:
•

Identify advanced preparations and procedures that will enable Business Unit/Function to respond quickly to
disruptive incidents and ensure continuity of critical business functions.

•

Reduce employee injury or loss of life, and minimize damage and losses

•

Have documented plans and procedures to ensure effective execution of recovery strategies for critical business
functions.

•

Reduce and mitigate disruptions to business operations.

•

Identify teams which would need to respond to incidents and define specific responsibilities.

•

Quantify the impact of incidents in terms of monetary, time, operations, and work force.

•

Recover quickly from an emergency and resume full operations.

Steps
Key Business Processes & Recovery Priorities
List all the key processes and sub processes that must be maintained or quickly restored in the event of a disruptive incident. It
provides a high-level description for each of the process and assigns a priority (criticality) ranking to each of them.
Risk assessment
Risk Assessment (RA) is one of the main parts of the BCP system. The RA process involves identification, analysis, and
evaluation of all possible risks, hazards, and threats to the operating environment, and defines likelihood / impact of disruptive
events caused by such threats.
Once the risks have been identified, their impact on different aspects of operations are gauged. Those risks which affect
mission-critical operations should be handled first. The following strategy is used to handle risks:
•

Prevent – Risks which are of high probability with high impact. These risks must be attended first by using mitigation,
prevention or any other strategy to lessen or avoid its impact.

•

Accept – Risks which have low probability and low impact. Nothing specific needs to be done for such risks, but the
organization should be vigilant. If a back-up strategy is put in place for such a risk, all the better.

•

Contain – Risks which have a high probability of occurring but having low impact on operations. Use mitigation strategies
to minimize impact of the risk on business operations.

•

Plan – Low probability but high impact events. Though this may be once in a lifetime event, its impact could be disastrous.
The business should plan the steps to be taken if such a risk occurs. Once the steps to be taken are in place, production
can be resumed in the shortest possible time with the least loss.

Business Impact Analysis
The Business Impact Analysis (BIA) identifies and prioritizes the mission-critical business processes and key functions, disruption
related operational impacts, and the resources (internal and external) required to recover critical operations.
A properly executed BIA will guide in reducing the overall operational and financial impacts, reduce potential losses, and enhance
the business operations.
Business Continuity Strategy
Business Continuity Plan describes the strategy devised to maintain business continuity in the event of a disruption to operations.
This strategy will be invoked when the primary facility(ies) are somehow be damaged or inaccessible, and business critical
operations are interrupted.
Recovery Priorities
The strategy is to recover critical business functions at an alternate site location (if an off-site strategy has been put into effect
to provide recovery service). Critical business functions are the most critical for immediate recovery at the secondary location.
8.

Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
Not available

9.

Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for
environmental impacts.
Not available

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

61

PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy,
should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
The Company is operating in a dynamic, competitive, and regulated environment, making the operations and compliance
more complex.
The Company is committed to follow the law of the land and has a policy of zero tolerance to non-compliance which is an
integral part of its culture and operating philosophy. To support, streamline and adapt quickly with the ever-changing policy
framework, the Company have key industry memberships as given below:
Essential Indicators
1.

a.

Number of affiliations with trade and industry Chambers/ Associations - 4

b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. No.

2.

Reach of trade and industry Chambers /
Associations (State/ National)

Name of the trade and industry Chambers/ Associations

1

Confederation of Indian Industries

State & National

2

Indian Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers’ Association

National

3

Sweden Chamber of Commerce India

National

4

Central Board of Irrigation and Power

National

Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Not applicable since the Company has not received any adverse order from regulatory authorities towards issues related
to anti-competitive conduct.
Name of authority

Brief of the case

Corrective action taken

-

-

-

-

Leadership Indicators
1.

Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S. No.

Public policy advocated

Method resorted
for such advocacy

1

Electrification of public transport
and development of urban
infrastructure

CII Karnataka
Industry forum

Whether information Frequency of Review by Board
available in public Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly Web Link, if available
domain (Yes/No)
/ Others - please specify)
-

-

-

PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and
equitable development
The Company’s Social Policy focuses on society, human rights, children and young workers, freedom of engagement, health
and safety, harassment and disciplinary practices, employee consultation, equality of opportunity working hours, compensation,
suppliers, community involvement and business ethics.
The policy is drawn principally on six sources:
1.

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights

2.

The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights

3.

The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work

4.

The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises

5.

The Global Sullivan Principles and

6.

The Social Accountability 8000 (SA 8000) standard

62

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

The Company has its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy and framework for action along with clear focal areas against
which community engagement projects are taken up predominantly in and around its factory locations.
The details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects are given in response to clause 6 of Leadership indicators.
Essential Indicators
1.

Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
current financial year.
Not applicable

2.

Name and brief details
of project

S. No.ification
No.

Date of
notification

NA

NA

NA

Whether conducted by independent Results communicated in
external agency (Yes/No)
public domain (Yes/no)
NA

NA

Relevant
web link
NA

Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by
your entity, in the following format:
Not applicable
S. No. Name of Project for which R&R is ongoing State
NA

3.

NA

District No. of Project Affected Families (PAFs) % of PAFs covered by R&R

NA

NA

NA

NA

Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
The Company is committed to sustainable and inclusive development of the community’s social capital through active
engagement. Social surveys are organized through NGO partners to receive the grievances of community, if any. CSR
projects are identified and implemented in the following focus areas:

4.

•

Promote gender equality and empowering of women in engineering workforce

•

Endorse education, employability & healthcare

•

Social impact projects to collaborate with communities to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access to
electricity in the country, especially in rural areas for its development

•

Support national disaster management and other government initiatives

•

Aid in sustainable development goals

Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year

Jan 1, 2021 - March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

Directly sourced from MSMEs/small producers

90%

90%

Sourced directly from within the district and neighboring districts

80%

80%

Particulars

Leadership Indicators
1.

Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Not applicable

2.

Details of negative social impact identified

Corrective action taken

-

-

Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as
identified by government bodies:
S. No.

State

Aspirational district

1

Karnataka

Bangalore, Mandya, Chickballapur, Chamrajnagar

Amount spent (In ₹)
13.70

2

Gujarat

Vadodara

19.47

3

Tamil Nadu

Chennai

8.08

4

Telangana

Warangal

3.00

5

Uttarakhand

Roorkee

3.00

6

West Bengal

Kharagpur

4.00

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

3.

4.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

63

(a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) - No
(b)

From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure? - Not Applicable

(c)

What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? - Not Applicable

Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the
current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Not applicable
S. No.

Intellectual property based on
traditional knowledge

Owned/Acquired
(Yes/No)

Benefit shared
(Yes/No)

Basis of calculating
benefit share

-

-

-

-

5.

Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved
Not applicable

6.

Name of authority

Brief of the case

Corrective action taken

-

-

-

Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. No.

CSR project

No of persons benefitted from CSR
projects

% of beneficiaries from vulnerable
and marginalized groups

1

Women in Manufacturing, Engineering – empowering
Girl students

200

Not applicable

2

Ambulance service- providing mobile physiotherapy
services for disabled.

About 100

3

Mobile Deep freeze devices for transporting vaccines,
immunization kits

15 villages

4

Urban Green cover development under Vadodara
Municipal Corporation

General public at Vadodara

5

Green initiatives at Traffic medians

General public on Bellary Road, Bengaluru

6

Development of 1.5km access road to villagers

Local villages for commuting

7

Sustainable Public Mobility at IIT Madras

Students’ community year after year

8

Smart Electric Grid – Laboratory at NIT Warangal

Students’ community year after year

9

Smart & Sustainable Community at IIT Roorkee

Students’ community year after year

10

New Energy Resources- at IIT Kharagpur

Students’ community year after year

11

Smart & Sustainable assets at BVM College

Students’ community year after year

PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a
responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.

Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
The Company customers have following channels through which complaints can be sent and following mechanism is in
place to respond to the same:
i)

Customers can place the complaints through:
a.

Contact Center

b.

Through Email / Letter to the concerned area sales office or project management/order handling or through
the EPC/OEM/Distributor from which they have purchased the finished product.

ii)

Upon receipt of the complaint, the sales team or the factory team who has received the complaint, will raise a ticket
in the system through Customer Compliant Resolution Process (CCRP) tool. The progress of these CCRP tickets are
tracked monthly.

iii)

Customers, if not satisfied with pace of resolution or the resolution itself, can also request for an escalation matrix.

iv)

Transactional NPS (Net Promoter Score) is used to track the customer feedback and analyzed to take corrective
actions, if necessary.

v)

High severity customer complaints are monitored on monthly basis at management meetings.

vi)

Feedbacks from customer visits are monitored at various steering committee levels.

64

2.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products / service that carry information about:
The product manual provides information on Environmental and Social parameters wherever it is relevant to the product.
For products installed in the field, the Company can offer lifecycle management solutions through its service operations.
This will support decision-making for customers to manage and maintain their assets, including when it is time for upgrades
and decommissioning of assets. The Company is expanding its solutions for product end-of-life management, which have
already contributed to large amounts of recycled material in certain markets. One of the key pillars of its service strategy
is extending the life of its customers’ electrical infrastructure.
Particulars

3.

As a percentage of total turnover

Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product

-

Safe and responsible usage

-

Recycling and/or safe disposal

-

Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following

Particulars

April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023
Current Financial Year
Received during
the year

Pending resolution
at end of year

Data privacy

None

Advertising

None

Cyber-security

Received during
the year

Pending resolution
at end of year

None

None

None

None

None

None

None

None

None

None

Delivery of essential services

None

None

None

None

Restrictive trade practices

None

None

None

None

Unfair trade practices

None

None

None

None

-

-

-

-

Other

4.

Remarks

Remarks

Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Particulars

5.

Jan 1, 2021 - March 31, 2022
Previous Financial Period

Number

Reason for recall

Voluntary recalls

NIL

NA

Forced recalls

NIL

NA

Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available,
provide a web-link of the policy.
Yes, the link is as follows - https://www.hitachienergy.com/offering/solutions/cybersecurity
The Company is certified for ISO/IEC: 27001:2013 for information security management systems.

6.

Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls;
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/ services.
No action taken or underway on issues relating to data privacy of customer.

Leadership Indicators
1.

Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link,
if available).
-

2.

Yes, Web Link is as follows: https://www.hitachienergy.com/offering

Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
The Company provides the following to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products
and/or services.
-

Product operational Manual

-

Customer training on product, if required

-

Factory Acceptance Test (FAT) confirmation

-

On site commissioning support

-

On-site Service support to the customer

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

3.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

65

Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
The Company manages with product life cycle management process like;

4.

•

EOL – End Of Life policy or

•

LTB – Last Time Buy policy

Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws?
(Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer
satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or
the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
Product safety is a critical component of each of its solutions and is exemplified as part of management system, which
contains a standard specifically for HSE requirements during product R&D. Each R&D project is accompanied by a project
specific HSE plan, requiring assessment of HSE risks, opportunities, and aspects. Additionally, all products are provided
with safety manuals, which include information concerning the safe use of products. Overall, product safety and design
programs allow us to incorporate safety by design and offer more value with less HSE & Sustainability impact.
On packing box, the Company prints “FRAGILE MARK” & Glass symbol for upside done indication, Umbrella mark and
don’t stack, Don’t stamp marking.
Yes. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey methodology is adopted to understand how the Company is perceived by its
customers. The surveys are administered online through a web-based application at planned intervals.

5.

Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a.

Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact - None

b.

Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers - Not Applicable

66

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Links to the Company Policies
and Programs section
Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Policy:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/content/dam/web/home/local-india/documents/sustainability/hse-and-sustainability-policywith-signature.pdf
Social Policy:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/content/dam/web/home/local-india/documents/sustainability/social-policy_.pdf
Human Rights Policy:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/content/dam/web/home/local-india/documents/sustainability/human-rights-policy_.pdf
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (Company):
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance
Sexual harassment of women at the workplace Policy (Company):
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance
Code of Conduct (Company):
https://www.hitachienergy.com/about-us/integrity/standards/code-of-conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct (Hitachi Energy Group):
https://www.hitachienergy.com/about-us/supplying/supplier-code-of-conduct
Sustainability development goals:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/sustainability/sustainability-overview#our-commitment
Corporate Governance (Company):
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance#policies
Integrity Program (Hitachi Energy Group):
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/about-us/integrity
Hitachi Energy Whistleblower - Protection Policy (Company):
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/about-us/integrity/reporting-channels/whistleblower-protection-policy
Please scan the QR code to view all Hitachi
Energy India’s polices and programs

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

67

Notice to the Members
NOTICE is hereby given that the FOURTH ANNUAL GENERAL
MEETING (‘AGM’) of the Members of Hitachi Energy India
Limited (formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited) (“the Company”) will be held on Thursday,
August 17, 2023 at 11:00 a.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing
(“VC”) or Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) to transact the
following businesses and the venue of the Meeting shall be
deemed to be the Registered Office of the Company at 8th Floor,
Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru 560092 to transact the following businesses:

Ordinary Business:
Item No. 1 - Adoption of Financial Statements and Reports
of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon for the
financial year ended March 31, 2023:
To receive, consider and adopt the financial statements of the
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, including
(i) the Audited Balance Sheet; (ii) Statement of Profit & Loss
Account and (iii) the Cash Flow Statement for the year ended on
that date together with (iv) the Reports of Board of Directors and
the Auditors thereon:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without
modification(s) the following Resolution as an Ordinary
Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT the Audited Financial Statements of the
Company as at March 31, 2023, Audited Statement of Profit &
Loss Account and Cash Flow Statement for the financial year
ended March 31, 2023, the statement of changes in equity,
if any, explanatory Notes annexed to or forming part of, the
documents referred above and the Report of the Board of
Directors and the Auditors attached thereto, be and are hereby
received, approved and adopted.”

Item No. 2 - Declaration of Dividend:
To declare a dividend on Equity Shares of ` 3.40 per Equity
Share (170%) face value of ` 2.00 each for the financial year
ended March 31, 2023:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without
modification(s) the following Resolution as an Ordinary
Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT a final dividend at the rate of ` 3.40 (Rupees
Three and Paisa Forty Only) per equity share of ` 2 (Rupees
Two only) each fully paid up of the Company be and is hereby
declared for the financial year ended March 31, 2023 and that
the same be paid as recommended by the Board of Directors of
the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2023.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors and/
or any of the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company for
the time being, be and are hereby authorized severally to do
all acts, deeds and things as the Board may, in its absolute
discretion, consider necessary, expedient or desirable in order
to give effect to this Resolution.”

Item No. 3 – Re-appointment of Mr. Ismo Antero Haka
(DIN: 08598862), who retires by rotation at this Annual
General Meeting and being eligible, offers himself for
re-appointment:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without
modification(s) the following Resolution as an Ordinary
Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT Mr. Ismo Antero Haka (DIN: 08598862),
who retires by rotation and being eligible, offers himself for
re-appointment, be and is hereby re-appointed as a Director
of the Company.”

Special Business:
Item No. 4 - Approval of remuneration payable to the Cost
Auditors of the Company for the financial year 2023-24:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without
modification(s) the following Resolution as an Ordinary
Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 and
other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013
read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the
payment of remuneration of ` 20,75,000 (Rupees Twenty Lakhs
and Seventy Five Thousand only) per annum plus applicable
taxes and out of pocket expenses actually incurred during the
course of an audit to M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost
Accountants (Firm Registration No.100392) appointed as Cost
Auditors, by the Board of Directors of the Company to conduct
the audit of the cost records of the Company for the financial
year ending March 31, 2024, be and is hereby approved.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company (including its Committee thereof), be and is hereby
authorized to do all acts and take all such steps as may be
necessary, proper or expedient to give effect to this Resolution.”

Item No. 5 - Increase in the Borrowing Limits of the
Company under Section 180(1)(c) of the Companies
Act, 2013:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without
modification(s) the following resolution as a Special Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT and pursuant to Section 180(1)(c) and other
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, as
amended from time to time, and the rules made thereunder and
Article 114 of the Articles of Association of the Company and in
supersession of all the earlier Resolutions, the consent of the
Members be and is hereby accorded to the Board of Directors of
the Company (hereinafter referred to as the “Board” which term
shall include any committee thereof for the time being exercising
the powers conferred on the Board by this Resolution), to borrow
money as and when required, from, including without limitation,
any Bank and/or other Financial Institution and/or foreign lender
and/or anybody corporate/ entity/entities and/or authority/
authorities, either in rupees or in such other foreign currencies as

68

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

may be permitted by law from time to time, as may be deemed
appropriate by the Board, which together with the monies already
borrowed by the Company (apart from temporary loans obtained
or to be obtained from the Company’s bankers in the ordinary
course of business), may exceed the aggregate of the paid-up
share capital of the Company and its free reserves, provided
however, the total amount so borrowed (apart from the temporary
loans obtained from the Company’s bankers in the ordinary
course of business including issuing Corporate Guarantees) shall
not exceed at any point in time a sum equivalent to ` 6,500 Crores
(Rupees Six Thousand Five Hundred crores only) consisting of
` 1,500 Crores towards fund based limits and ` 5,000 Crores
towards non-fund based borrowings facilities over and above
the aggregate, of the paid-up share capital and free reserves of
the Company.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby
authorized and empowered to arrange or settle the terms and
conditions on which all such monies are to be borrowed from
time to time as to interest, repayment, security or otherwise
howsoever as it may think fit and to do all such acts, deeds and
things, to execute all such documents, instruments and writings
as may be required.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving effect
to this Resolution, the Board of Directors and/or any of the Key
Managerial Personnel of the Company for the time being, be
and are hereby severally authorized to do all such acts, deeds,
matters and things and take such steps which are necessary,
expedient or desirable in this regard including but not limited
to the delegation of powers to any director or committee of
directors or any other person as it may deem fit subject to the
provision of the Companies Act, 2013.”

Item No. 6 – Appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh (DIN:
00528252) as an Independent Director of the Company:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without
modification(s) the following Resolution as a Special Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 149,
150, 152 read with Schedule IV and other applicable provisions
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the Companies
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014
(including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof
for the time being in force), and other applicable Regulations of
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, Ms. Meena
Ganesh (DIN: 00528252), who has been appointed by the
Board of Directors, based on recommendation of Nomination
and Remuneration Committee, as an Additional Director under
Section 161 of the Act and who holds office up to the ensuing
Annual General Meeting and qualifies for being appointed as
Independent Director, and in respect of whom the Company has
received a notice in writing under Section 160 of the Act from
a Member proposing her candidature for the office of Director,
be and is hereby appointed as an Independent Director of
the Company, not liable to retire by rotation, for a term of five
consecutive years effective from May 24, 2023 to May 23, 2028.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of
Sections 149, 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act and
the Rules made thereunder, Ms. Meena Ganesh (DIN: 00528252)
shall be entitled to receive such fees and remuneration by way
of commission as permitted to be received in the capacity
Non-Executive, Independent Director under the Act and

Listing Regulations, as recommended by the Nomination
and Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board of
Directors from time to time.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors (including
any Committee thereof) and/or any of the Key Managerial
Personnel of the Company for the time being, be and are
hereby authorized severally to do all acts, deeds and things as
the Board may, in its absolute discretion, consider necessary,
expedient or desirable in order to give effect to this Resolution.”
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited)
Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Place: Bengaluru
Date: July 11, 2023
Registered Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 68473700

Notes:
1.	This AGM is convened through Video Conferencing (“VC”) /
Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”) pursuant to the Ministry
of Corporate Affairs (MCA) issued Circular No. 14/2020
dated 8th April 2020, Circular No. 17/2020 dated 13th April
2020, Circular No. 20/2020 dated 5th May 2020, Circular No.
21/2021 dated 14th December 2021, Circular No. 2/2022
dated 5th May 2022 and Circular No. 10/2022 dated 28th
December 2022 (“MCA Circulars”) and the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) issued Circular No. SEBI/
HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated 12th May 2020,
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated
13th May 2022, and Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/
CIR/2023/4 dated 5th January 2023 (“SEBI Circulars”), which
allows the companies to hold AGMs through VC/ OAVM.
2.	
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of
the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) setting out material facts
concerning the business under Item Nos. 4 to 6 of the
Notice is annexed hereto. The relevant details, pursuant
to Regulations 36(3) of the Listing Regulations and
Secretarial Standards-2 on General Meetings issued by
the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, in respect
of Directors seeking appointment/re-appointment at the
AGM are provided as an annexure to the Notice. Requisite
declarations have been received from the Director/s for
seeking appointment/re-appointment.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

3.	In compliance with the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, this
AGM Notice along with the Annual Report for the financial year
ended March 31, 2023 is sent only through electronic mode
to those Members whose e-mail addresses are registered
with the Company / their Depositary Participants. The AGM
Notice and Annual Report of the Company are made available
on the Company’s website a https://www.hitachienergy.com/
in/en/investor-relations/general-meetings#annual-report and
also on the website of the Stock Exchanges where the shares
of the Company have been listed viz., BSE Limited - www.
bseindia.com and National Stock Exchange of India Limited
- https://www.nseindia.com/. The Company has published
a Public Notice by way of advertisement in the Kannada
Language, the principal vernacular language of Karnataka
and in the English language in an English newspaper with the
required details of the 4th AGM for information of the Members.
4. A
 Member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting, is
entitled to appoint one or more proxies (the proxy need not
be a member of the Company to attend and vote instead of
himself/herself). Since this AGM is being held through VC /
OAVM, the requirement of physical attendance of members
has been dispensed with. Accordingly, in terms of the MCA
Circulars and SEBI Circulars, the facility for appointment of
proxies by the Members will not be available for this AGM.
5. M
 embers attending the AGM through VC/OAVM shall be
counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under
Section 103 of the Act.
6.	In the case of joint holders attending the AGM, the member
whose name appears as the first holder in the order of the
names as per the Register of Members of the Company will
be entitled to vote.
7.	
The Company has availed the services of National Securities
Depository Limited (NSDL), as the authorised agency for
conducting the AGM through VC/OAVM and providing an
e-voting facility. The Members can join the AGM in the VC/
OAVM mode 30 minutes before the scheduled time of the
commencement of the Meeting by following the procedure
mentioned in the Notice. The Members will be able to view
the proceedings on the National Securities Depository
Limited’s e-Voting website at https://www.evoting.nsdl.
com. The facility of participation at the AGM through VC/
OAVM will be made available to at least 1,000 Members on
a first come first served basis as per the MCA Circulars. The
detailed instructions for joining the meeting through VC/
OAVM form part of the Notes to this Notice.
8.	
The Registers of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
and their shareholding, maintained under Section 170 of the
Companies Act, 2013, will be available for inspection by the
members electronically during Annual General Meeting.
9.	
The Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which
Directors are interested, maintained under Section 189 of the
Companies Act, 2013, will be available for inspection by the
members electronically during the Annual General Meeting.
10.	The Register of Members and the Share Transfer Books of
the Company will remain closed from August 11, 2023 to
August 17, 2023 (both days inclusive) for the purpose of the
Annual General Meeting and dividend. The cut-off date for
voting through remote e-voting and voting at the AGM venue

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

69

is Thursday, August 10, 2023, and the record date for the
dividend is Thursday, August 10, 2023.
11.	The Company is proposing a dividend for the financial year
ended March 31, 2023. Also, this being the fourth financial
year of the Company, there was no requirement to transfer
any dividends not encashed or remaining unclaimed for a
period of 7 (seven) years from the date of transfer to the
Company’s Unpaid Dividend Account, to the Investor
Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”), established under
Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013. Further, there
was no requirement to transfer all shares on which dividend
has not been paid or claimed for seven consecutive years
or more to IEPF Authority as notified by the Ministry of
Corporate Affairs. As the Company was incorporated
on February 19, 2019, it may be noted that there is no
Unclaimed Dividend lying in IEPF Account.
	Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement (Demerger), 1,07,421
Equity shares were allotted directly to the IEPF account and
a dividend of ` 3,19,502 (after deduction of taxes) was also
paid and deposited directly into the IEPF account after 3rd
AGM. The concerned Members/claimants may claim the
shares and corresponding dividend amount (declared for FP
2021-22) by making an application to IEPF Authority in Form
IEPF 5 (available on www.iepf.gov.in) along with requisite fee
and documents as decided/prescribed by it from time to time.
	
It is in the Member’s interest to claim any un-encashed
dividends and for future, opt for Electronic Clearing Service,
so that dividends paid by the Company are credited to the
Member’s account on time.
	The details of the unclaimed dividend including fractional
shares amount transferred directly into IEPF account and
Equity shares directly allotted to IEPF pursuant to Scheme
of Demerger are available on the Company’s website at
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/.
Members are requested to contact KFin Technologies
Limited (KFintech), Unit: Hitachi Energy India Limited
(formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited), Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Serilingampally Mandal,
Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana, the Registrar and Share
Transfer Agents of the Company, to claim the unclaimed/
unpaid dividends, aforementioned fractional shares sold
amount and equity shares.
Due dates for transfer to IEPF are as under:
Type

Declaration /
Sale Date

Due Date

Transfer of unclaimed
Fractional shares amount
(arising of fractional shares
sold in the Financial Year
January to December 2020)

July 27, 2020

September
30, 2027

Transfer of unclaimed/unpaid
dividends and corresponding
Equity shares for the
Financial Year January to
December 2020

May 27, 2021

July 31,
2028

Transfer of unclaimed/unpaid
dividends and corresponding
Equity shares for the
Financial Period January
2021 to March 2022

July 22, 2022

September
26, 2029

70

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

12.	
In terms of the provisions of Section 152 of the Act,
Mr. Ismo Antero Haka (DIN: 08598862), retires by rotation
at the Meeting. Mr. Ismo Antero Haka is interested in the
Ordinary Resolution set out at Item No. 3 of the Notice
with regard to his re-appointment. Save and except the
above, none of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel
of the Company / their relatives are, in any way, concerned
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Ordinary
Businesses set out under AGM Notice except to the extent
of equity shares held by them, if any.

	
As per the provisions of the Act and applicable SEBI
Circular, Members holding shares in physical form may file
nomination in the prescribed Form SH-13 with the KFintech
or make changes to their nomination details through Form
SH-14 and Form ISR-3.

13. Members are requested to intimate, indicating their folio
number, the changes, if any, in their registered address,
email id, bank account details, nomination, signature, etc.,
either to the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents
(“RTA”), KFin Technologies Limited (“KFin/KFintech”) at the
address captured under “Information at a glance” or to their
respective Depository Participant (“DP”) in case the shares
are held in dematerialized form.

	
Members holding shares in dematerialised form are
requested to intimate all changes pertaining to their bank
details, mandates, nominations, power of attorney, change
of address, change of name, e-mail address, contact
numbers, etc., to their DP only.

	To enhance the ease of dealing in securities markets by
investors, SEBI has decided that listed companies shall
henceforth issue the securities in dematerialized form only
(vide Gazette Notification no. SEBI/LADNRO/GN/2022/66
dated January 24, 2022) while processing the service
request mentioned in the above notification (viz., for the
issue of duplicate shares, claim from Unclaimed suspense
account, renewal/exchange of securities certificate,
endorsement, Subdivision / Splitting of securities certificate,
Consolidation of securities certificates/folios, share transfer,
share transmission, share transposition, issue of duplicate
shares, deletion of a name, correction of name, etc.). Hence,
the Members holding shares in physical form are requested
to consider converting their holdings in a dematerialized
form. The Members who are desirous to convert their
physical holdings into dematerialized form, may contact the
Depository Participant of their choice.
	
As per Regulation 40 of SEBI Listing Regulations, as
amended with effect from April 1, 2019, SEBI has mandated
that securities of listed companies can be transferred only
in dematerialised form. In view of the above and to avail
various benefits of dematerialisation, Members are advised
to dematerialise shares held by them in physical form, for
ease in portfolio management.
	SEBI has mandated the updation of PAN, contact, Bank
account, specimen signature and nomination details against
folio / demat account.
	PAN is also required to be updated for participating in the
securities market, deletion of the name of the deceased
holder and transmission/ transposition of shares. As per the
applicable SEBI Circular, PAN details are to be compulsorily
linked to Aadhar details, by 31st March 2023 or any other
date specified by the Central Board of Direct Taxes.
	Members are requested to submit PAN, contact, Bank
account, nomination details and specimen signature (as
applicable) to their DP in case of holding in dematerialised
form or to the Company and/ or to RTA through Form ISR1, Form ISR-2 and Form ISR-3 (as applicable) available at
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations#p-revised-process-for-updation-of-details-for-physicalsharehol in case of holdings in physical form.

	In respect of shares held in dematerialised form, the nomination
form may be filed with the respective DP. For relevant details/
forms, please visit the following - https://www.hitachienergy.
com/in/en/investor-relations#-p-revised-process-for-updationof-details-for-physical-sharehol

	Members holding shares in physical form are requested to
intimate such changes to the Company and/ or to RTA [through
Form ISR-1, Form ISR-2 and Form ISR-3 (as applicable)].
	Members holding shares in more than one folio in the same
name(s) are requested to send the details of their folios along
with the share certificates so as to enable the Company to
consolidate their holdings into one folio.
14.	As a part of the green initiative and as mandated by SEBI, the
Members who have not yet registered their e-mail addresses
are requested to register their e-mail addresses with their
DPs in case the shares are held by them in electronic form
and with KFin Technologies Limited (“KFin/KFintech”) in case
the shares are held by them in physical form. Upon such
Registration, all communication from the Company/ RTA will
be sent to the registered e-mail address.
15.	The members/investors may write their queries, if any to the
Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents’ e-mail ID:
einward.ris@kfintech.com or to the Company’s designated/
exclusive e-mail investors@hitachienergy.com.
16.	
All documents referred in the accompanying Notice and
Statement setting out material facts will be available
for Members inspection at the Registered Office of the
Company on all working days between 10.00 a.m. and
12.00 noon up to the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Members seeking to inspect such documents can send an
e-mail to: investors@hitachienergy.com.
17. To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are advised
to exercise due diligence and notify the Company of any
change in address or demise of any Member as soon as
possible. Members are also advised not to leave their Demat
account(s) dormant for long. Periodic statements of holdings
should be obtained from the concerned DPs and holdings
should be verified from time to time.
18.	Since the AGM is being held through VC/OAVM, the Route
Map, Attendance Slip and proxy form are not attached to
this Notice.

Speaker Shareholder:
19.	Members who would like to express their views/ ask
questions as a speaker at the Meeting may pre-register
themselves by sending a request from their registered
e-mail address mentioning their names, DP ID and
Client ID/ folio number, PAN and mobile number at

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

investors@hitachienergy.com between Thursday, August
10, 2023 (9.00 a.m. IST) and Monday, August 14, 2023 (5.00
p.m. IST). Only those Members who have pre-registered
themselves as a speaker will be allowed to express their
views/ask questions during the AGM. The Company reserves
the right to restrict the number of speakers depending on
the availability of time for the AGM.
20.	Post your Question: The Members who wish to post their
questions prior to the meeting can do the same by sending
email at investors@hitachienergy.com between Thursday,
August 10, 2023 (9.00 a.m. IST) and Monday, August 14,
2023 (5.00 p.m. IST) from their registered e-mail address,
mentioning their name, DP ID and Client ID number/folio
number and mobile number. Such questions by the Members
shall be suitably replied by the Company.
21. 
Facility of joining the AGM through VC/OAVM shall be
available for 1000 members on first-come-first-served basis.
However, the participation of members holding 2% or more
shares, Promoters, and Institutional Investors, Directors, Key
Managerial Personnel, Chairpersons of Audit Committee,
Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Nomination and
Remuneration Committee and Auditors are not restricted on
first-come-first-served basis.
22.	Members of the Company under the category of Institutional
Investors are encouraged to attend the AGM and vote at the
AGM through VC/OAVM, if not already voted remotely.
	“The Resident Non-Individual Members such as Insurance
Companies, Mutual Funds, Alternative Investment Fund
(AIF) and other domestic financial institutions established
in India and Non-Resident Non-Individual Members such
as Foreign Portfolio Investors may submit the relevant
forms, declarations and documents through their respective
custodians who are registered with NSDL for tax services,
on or before the aforesaid timelines.”
23. Instructions for attending the AGM through VC/OAVM
and remote e-Voting (before and during the AGM) are
given below:
HE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR REMOTE
T
E-VOTING AND JOINING GENERAL MEETING ARE AS
UNDER:
Remote e-Voting before/during the AGM:
a.	Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Act read with
Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration)
Rules, 2014 (as amended) and Regulation 44 of SEBI LODR (as
amended) and the MCA Circulars, the Company is providing
the facility of remote e-Voting to its Members in respect of
the business to be transacted at the AGM. For this purpose,
the Company has entered into an agreement with NSDL for
facilitating voting through electronic means, as the authorised
agency. The facility of casting votes by a Member using remote
e-Voting system as well as remote e-Voting during the AGM will
be provided by NSDL.
b.	
Any person holding shares in physical form and nonindividual shareholders, who acquires shares of the Company

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

71

and becomes member of the Company after the Notice is
sent through e-mail and holding shares as of the cut-off
date i.e. Thursday, August 10, 2023, may obtain the login ID
and password by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in
or Issuer/RTA. However, if you are already registered with
NSDL for remote e-voting, then you can use your existing
user ID and password for casting your vote. If you forgot
your password, you can reset your password by using
“Forgot User Details/Password” or “Physical User Reset
Password” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com or
call on toll free no. 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000. In
case of Individual shareholders holding securities in demat
mode who acquire shares of the Company and becomes a
member of the Company after sending of the Notice and
holding shares as of the cut-off date i.e. Thursday, August
10, 2023, may follow steps mentioned in the Notice of the
AGM under “Access to NSDL e-voting system”.
c.	The remote e-Voting period commences 9.00 a.m. IST on
Saturday, August 12, 2023 and ends at 5.00 p.m. IST on
Wednesday, August 16, 2023. The remote e-Voting module
shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. Once the
vote on a resolution is cast by the Member, the Member shall
not be allowed to change it subsequently. The voting rights
of the Members shall be in proportion to their share of the
paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on the cutoff date i.e., Thursday, August 10, 2023.
d.	Members will be provided with the facility for voting through
the electronic voting system during the VC proceedings
at the AGM and Members participating at the AGM, who
have not already cast their vote by remote e-Voting, will be
eligible to exercise their right to vote at the end of discussion
on the resolutions on which voting is to be held, upon
announcement by the Chairperson. Members who have cast
their vote on resolution(s) by remote e-Voting prior to the
AGM will also be eligible to participate at the AGM through
VC/OAVM but shall not be entitled to cast their vote on such
resolution(s) again.
e.	The remote e-Voting module on the day of the AGM shall be
disabled by NSDL for voting 15 minutes after the conclusion
of the Meeting.
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting system?
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system consists
of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system:

A)	Login method for e-Voting and joining the virtual
meetings for Individual shareholders holding
securities in demat mode:
In terms of the SEBI Circular dated December 9, 2020 on the
e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to
vote through their demat account maintained with Depositories
and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update
their mobile number and email Id in their demat accounts in
order to access the e-Voting facility.

72

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders

Login Method

Individual Shareholders 1. Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com either
holding
securities
on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on the “Beneficial
in demat mode with
Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section, this will prompt you to enter
NSDL.
your existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting
services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you
will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL
and you will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote
e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
2. If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.
com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp
3. Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Voting
system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member/Creditor’
section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat
account number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see
e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be
redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
4. Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning
the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.

APP STORE

GOOGLE PLAY

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

73

Individual Shareholders 1. Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user id and
holding securities in
password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication. The
demat mode with CDSL
users to login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login
icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then user your existing my Easi username & password.
2. After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible
companies where the e-Voting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On
clicking the e-Voting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service provider
for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during
the meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service
Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
3. 
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
4. Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number and
PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate
the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat Account. After
successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option where the evoting is in progress
and also able to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual Shareholders
(holding securities in
demat mode) login
through their depository
participants

You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository Participant
registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. Upon logging in, you will be able to see e-Voting
option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful
authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on company name or e-Voting service
provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during
the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.

Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget Password
option available at abovementioned website.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through
Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type

Helpdesk details

Individual Shareholders Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at
holding securities in evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at toll free no.: 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000
demat mode with NSDL
Individual Shareholders Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at
holding securities in helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 022- 23058738 or 1800 22 55 33
demat mode with CDSL

B)

Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders
holding securities in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.

1.	Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on
a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
2.	Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member/
Creditor’ section.
3.	A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the
screen.
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your
existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, click on e-Voting and you can
proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
4. Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding shares i.e.
Demat (NSDL or CDSL) or
Physical

Your User ID is:

a) For Members who hold shares in 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
demat account with NSDL.
For example, if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then your user ID is
IN300***12******

74

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

b) For Members who hold shares in 16 Digit Beneficiary ID
demat account with CDSL.
For example, if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your user ID is 12**************
c) 
For Members holding shares in EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the company
Physical Form.
For example, if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 101456 then user ID is 101456001***
5. Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are given below:
a) If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you can use your existing password to login and cast your vote.
b) If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ which was
communicated to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the system will
force you to change your password.
c) H
 ow to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
(i) If your email ID is registered in your demat account or with the company, your ‘initial password’ is communicated to you
on your email ID. Trace the email sent to you from NSDL from your mailbox. Open the email and open the attachment i.e.
a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file. The password to open the .pdf file is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL account, last 8 digits of
client ID for CDSL account or folio number for shares held in physical form. The .pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your
‘initial password’.
(ii) If your email ID is not registered, please follow steps mentioned below in process for those shareholders whose email
ids are not registered.
6. If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the “Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
a) Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?” (If you are holding shares in your demat account with NSDL or CDSL) option
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
b) “Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are holding shares in physical mode) option available on www.evoting.nsdl.
com.
c) If you are still unable to get the password by aforesaid two options, you can send a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning
your demat account number/folio number, your PAN, your name and your registered address etc.
d) Members can also use the OTP (One Time Password) based login for casting the votes on the e-Voting system of NSDL.
7. After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
8. Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
9. After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of e-Voting will open.
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General
Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system:
How to cast your vote electronically and join General
Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
1.	After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all
the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding shares and
whose voting cycle and General Meeting is in active status.
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to cast
your vote during the remote e-Voting period and casting
your vote during the General Meeting. For joining virtual
meeting, you need to click on “VC/OAVM” link placed
under “Join Meeting”.
3. Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens.
4.	Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent
or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares for which
you wish to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and also
“Confirm” when prompted.
5.	Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully”
will be displayed.
6.	You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by
clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
7.	Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not be
allowed to modify your vote.

General Guidelines for shareholders
1.	
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals,
HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/
JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority
letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly
authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to
the Scrutinizer by e-mail to: cs.skannan@gmail.com with
a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in The scanned image
of the above mentioned documents should be in the
naming format “Hitachi Energy India Limited’s 4th Annual
General Meeting”. Institutional shareholders (i.e., other
than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their Board
Resolution / Power of Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by
clicking on “Upload Board Resolution / Authority Letter”
displayed under “e-Voting” tab in their login.
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your password
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your
password confidential. Login to the e-voting website will
be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the
correct password. In such an event, you will need to go
through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical
User Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com to reset the password.
3.	In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked
Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting user
manual for Shareholders available at the download section

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on toll free no.: 022 - 4886
7000 and 022 - 2499 7000 or send a request to Pallavi
Mhatre or Amit Vishal at evoting@nsdl.co.in

 rocess for those shareholders whose email ids are not
P
registered with the depositories for procuring user id
and password and registration of e mail ids for e-voting
for the resolutions set out in this notice:
1.	In case shares are held in physical mode, please provide
Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy of the share
certificate (front and back), PAN (self-attested scanned
copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self-attested scanned copy of
Aadhar Card) by email to investors@hitachienergy.com

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

75

above for access to NSDL e-Voting system. After successful
login, you can see link of “VC/OAVM link” placed under “Join
meeting” menu against company name. You are requested
to click on VC/OAVM link placed under “Join Meeting”
menu. The link for VC/OAVM will be available in Shareholder/
Member login where the EVEN of Company will be displayed.
Please note that the members who do not have the User ID
and Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User ID and
Password may retrieve the same by following the remote
e-Voting instructions mentioned in the notice to avoid last
minute rush.
2.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through
Laptops for better experience.

2.	In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide DPIDCLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit beneficiary ID), Name,
client master or copy of Consolidated Account statement,
PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR
(self-attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) to investors@
hitachienergy.com. If you are an Individual shareholder
holding securities in demat mode, you are requested to
refer to the login method explained at step 1 (A) i.e. Login
method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual
shareholders holding securities in demat mode.

3.	Further, Speakers will be required to allow Camera and use
Internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during
the meeting.

3.	Alternatively, shareholder/members may send a request to
evoting@nsdl.co.in for procuring user id and password for
e-voting by providing above mentioned documents.

INSTRUCTIONS RELATED TO THE PAYMENT OF
FINAL DIVIDEND FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
MARCH 31, 2023:

4.	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on
e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed
to vote through their demat account maintained with
Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders
are required to update their mobile number and email
ID correctly in their demat account in order to access
e-Voting facility.

24.	The dividend as recommended by the Board of Directors
of the Company, if declared by the Members at the AGM,
will be paid after applicable deduction of tax on and from
Friday, August 18, 2023, to those Members whose name
stand registered on the Company’s Register of Members:

INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR e-VOTING ON
THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:
1.	The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM is same
as the instructions mentioned above for remote e-voting.
2.	Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be present in
the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have not casted
their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and
are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to
vote through e-Voting system in the AGM.
3.	Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting will be
eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not be eligible
to vote at the AGM.
4.	The details of the person who may be contacted for any
grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting on the
day of the AGM shall be the same person mentioned for
Remote e-voting.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING
THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER:
1.	Member will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM
through VC/OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting system.
Members may access by following the steps mentioned

4.	
Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile
Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via Mobile
Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due to Fluctuation
in their respective networks. It is therefore recommended to
use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate any kind of
aforesaid glitches.

(a) To all the Beneficial Owners as at the end of the day on
Thursday, August 10, 2023 as per the list of beneficial
owners to be furnished by the National Securities
Depository Limited (“NSDL”) and Central Depository
Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) in respect of shares
held in dematerialised form;
(b) To all the Members after giving effect to valid transmission
and transposition in respect of valid requests lodged
with the Company as of the close of business hours on
Thursday, August 10, 2023.
25.	Procedure to be followed by the Members for updation
of PAN, tax declaration and other details for receipt of
dividend (whenever declared):
	Effective April 1, 2020, dividend income is taxable in the
hands of shareholders. Hence the Company is required to
deduct tax at source [TDS] from the amount of dividend
payable to shareholders at the prescribed rates. A Resident
individual shareholders having valid PAN and who is not
liable to pay income tax can submit a yearly declaration in
Form No. 15G/15H, to avail the benefit of non-deduction of
tax at source by e-mail to einward.ris@kfintech.com on or
before Friday, August 4, 2023 (upto 5:00 pm IST). Further, no
tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable to a resident
individual shareholder if the total amount of dividend to be
received from the Company during the Financial Year 202324 does not exceed ₹5,000. Shareholders may note that in

76

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

case PAN is not updated with the Depository Participant/
Registrar of the Company, the tax will be deducted at a
higher rate of 20%.
	Non-resident shareholders can avail beneficial tax rates
under Double Tax Avoidance Agreement [DTAA] i.e. tax
treaty between India and their country of residence. Nonresident shareholders are required to provide details
on applicability of beneficial tax rates by submitting the
following documents:
•

Copy of PAN card, if any, allotted by the Indian Income
Tax Authorities duly self-attested by the member

•

Copy of Tax Residency Certificate [TRC] for the
FY 2023-24 obtained from the revenue authorities of
country of tax residence duly attested by the member

•

Self-Declaration in Form 10-F

•

No-PE [permanent establishment] certificate

•

Self-Declaration of beneficial ownership by the nonresident shareholder

•

Lower withholding Tax certificate, if any, obtained from
the Indian Tax Authorities

The members/shareholders are required to provide above
documents/declarations by sending an E-mail to einward.ris@
kfintech.com on or before Friday, August 4, 2023 (upto 5:00
pm IST). The Shareholders in the category of Mutual Funds
are required to submit their respective SEBI Registration
Certificates to einward.ris@kfintech.com on or before Friday,
August 4, 2023 (upto 5:00 pm IST). The aforesaid documents
are subject to verification by the Company and in case of
ambiguity, the Company reserves its right to deduct the TDS
as per the provisions of the Income tax Act, 1961. In case of
Foreign Institutional Investors / Foreign Portfolio Investors, tax
will be deducted under Section 196D of the Income Tax Act
@20% plus applicable Surcharge and Cess.
Further, to receive the dividend on time, Members holding
shares in physical form who have not updated their mandate for
receiving the dividends directly in their bank accounts through
Electronic Clearing Service or any other means are requested to
send the following documents to our RTA – KFin Technologies
Limited, latest by August 4, 2023:
(a) Form No. ISR-1 duly filled and signed by the holders stating
their name, folio number, complete address with pin code,
and following details relating to the bank account in which
the dividend is to be received:
(i) Name of Bank and Bank Branch;
(ii) Bank Account Number & Type allotted by your bank after
implementation of Core Banking Solutions; and
i)

11-digit IFSC Code.

ii) 9 digit MICR Code.
(b) Original copy of cancelled cheque bearing the name of the
Member or first holder, in case shares are held jointly;
(c) Self-attested copy of the PAN Card; and
(d) Self-attested copy of any document (such as AADHAR
Card, Driving License, Election Identity Card, Passport) in
support of the address of the Member as registered with
the Company.

26.	Members holding shares in electronic form may please
note that their bank details as furnished by the respective
Depositories to the Company will be considered for
remittance of dividend as per the applicable regulations of
the Depositories and the Company will not entertain any
direct request from such Members for change/addition/
deletion in such bank details. Accordingly, the Members
holding shares in Demat form are requested to update their
Electronic Bank Mandate with their respective DPs.
	Further, please note that instructions, if any, already given by
Members in respect of shares held in physical form, will not
be automatically applied to the dividend paid on shares held
in electronic form.
27.	Members are requested to address all correspondence
to the Company Secretary or to the KFin at the address
mentioned hereunder:
To the Company:
Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Hitachi Energy India Limited
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Registered office: 8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401, Kodigehalli
Main Road, Bengaluru-560092
Phone no: +91 80 6847 3700
Website: www.hitachienergy.com/in
Email: investors@hitachienergy.com
To the Registrar & Share Transfer Agents:
KFin Technologies Limited
Unit: Hitachi Energy India Limited
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31 & 32, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal, Hyderabad - 500
032, Telangana.
Toll free number: 1- 800-309-4001
Website: https://www.kfintech.com and / or
https://ris.kfintech.com/
Email id: einward.ris@kfintech.com
28. Other points:
I.	
The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. S Kannan,
(Membership No. FCS 6261/CP No. PCS 13016), Practicing
Company Secretary and in his absence Mr. B L Vinay,
Practicing Company Secretary, Bengaluru, (Membership
No. A26638 and CP No. PCS 10760), Bengaluru as the
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the voting process in a fair and
transparent manner.
II.	
The Scrutinizer shall immediately after the conclusion
of voting at the general meeting, count the votes cast
at the meeting and votes cast through remote e-voting
in the presence of at least two witnesses who are not in
the employment of the Company and within a period not
exceeding two working days from the conclusion of the
meeting submit a consolidated Scrutinizer’s report of the
total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman
of the Company, or any other person authorized by him in
writing for counter signature.
III.	The Results shall be declared either by the Chairman or
the person authorized by the Chairman in writing and the
resolutions will be deemed to have been passed on the AGM

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

date subject to receipt of the requisite number of votes in
favour thereof.
IV.	
Promptly after declaration of results, the same will be
communicated to BSE Limited (“BSE”), National Stock

Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) (together called as
“Stock Exchanges”), Depositories, Registrar and Transfer
Agents being KFin Technologies Limited and would also
be displayed on the Company’s website https://www.
hitachienergy.com/in/en and at its registered office.

V.	
A person who is not a member as on the cut-off date, should treat this Notice for information purpose only.
Information at a glance
Particulars

Information

Time and date of 4 AGM

Thursday, August 17, 2023 at 11:00 am

Mode

Video Conference and Other Audio-Visual Means (VC/OAVM)

Participation through VC/OAVM

Refer instructions above

Helpline number for Remote e-voting
participation

022 4886 7000 / 022 2499 7000

Cut-off date for remote e-voting/
voting at AGM and for dividend

Thursday, August 10, 2023

Remote E-voting start time and date

Saturday, August 12, 2023, at 9:00 am (IST)

Remote E-voting end time and date

Wednesday, August 16, 2023 at 5:00 pm (IST)

E-voting facility after conclusion of
AGM

Members who have not exercised voting through remote e-voting can exercise voting
immediately after conclusion of AGM

E-voting website of NSDL for remote
e-voting

https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/

Name, address and contact details
of Registrar and Transfer Agent

Ms. Shobha Anand
Deputy Vice President
KFin Technologies Limited,
Unit: Hitachi Energy India Limited
(formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District, Nanakramguda Serilingampally, Mandal,
Hyderabad - 500032.
Contact details:
e-mail ID: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Contact number: toll free no. 1- 800-309-4001

Name and contact details of e-voting
and VC/OAVM service provider

National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL)
Toll free number: 022 4886 7000 / 022 2499 7000
e-mail ID: evoting@nsdl.co.in

th

For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Place: Bengaluru
Date: July 11, 2023
Registered Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 68473700

77

78

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Explanatory Statement

The Board commends the Special Resolution set out at Item No.
5 of the Notice for approval by the Members.

Setting out material facts under Regulation 36(5) of the
Listing Regulations and Section 102 of the Companies
Act, 2013

None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their
respective relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested,
financially or otherwise, except to the extent of their shareholding,
if any, in the Company.

Item No. 4:

Copy of the Articles of Association of the Company as mentioned
in the Resolution will be available for Members inspection at the
Registered Office of the Company on all working days between
10.00 a.m. and 12.00 noon up to the date of the Annual General
Meeting. Members seeking to inspect, can send an e-mail to
investors@hitachienergy.com

The Board of Directors of the Company, based on the
recommendation of the Audit Committee, has approved
the appointment of M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost
Accountant (Registration No: 100392) as Cost Auditor to conduct
the audit of the cost records of the Company for the financial
year ending March 31, 2024. In accordance with the provisions
of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the remuneration
payable to the Cost Auditors requires to be approved by the
Members of the Company.
Accordingly, approval of the Members is sought as referred
to in the Resolution No. 4 of the Notice for the payment of the
remuneration amounting to ` 20,75,000 (Rupees Twenty Lakhs
and Seventy Five Thousand only) for Cost Audit plus applicable
taxes and out of pocket expenses incurred during the course of
audit for the financial year ending March 31, 2024.
The Board of Directors recommends the Resolution for approval
of Members as an Ordinary Resolution as set out in Resolution
No. 4 of the accompanying Notice.
None of the Directors and/or Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company and / or their respective relatives is concerned or
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Ordinary Resolution as
set out in Resolution No. 4 of the Notice.

Item No. 5:
The Members had, vide their Resolution dated May 27, 2022
accorded approval for borrowing upto ` 6,000 Crores (Rupees
Six Thousand Crores only) consisting of ` 5,000 Crores towards
non-fund based and ` 1,000 Crores towards fund based limits
from its Bankers/Financial Institutions or from any one for
operations of the Company.
Given the likely increase in business opportunities, the Board of
Directors at their Meeting held on May 24, 2023 has provided
their approval and recommended the same to the Shareholders
to increase the existing limit from ` 6,000 Crores to ` 6,500
Crores by enhancing the fund based limit by ` 500 Crores. As
a result, the revised limits would be ` 6,500 Crores (Rupees Six
Thousand Five Hundred crores only) consisting of ` 1,500 Crores
towards fund based limits and ` 5,000 Crores towards non-fund
based borrowings facilities.
Section 180 of the Companies Act, 2013 provides that consent
of the Members of the Company is required to be secured for
borrowing in excess of its paid-up Share Capital, free reserves
and securities premium (apart from temporary loans obtained
or to be obtained from the Company’s bankers in the ordinary
course of business). Since, the proposed borrowing exceeds
the paid-up Share Capital, free reserves and securities premium
of the Company, approval of the Members of the Company is
sought by way of a Special Resolution.

Item No. 6:
Based on the recommendation of the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee (NRC), the Board of Directors at their
Meeting held on May 24, 2023, appointed Ms. Meena Ganesh
(DIN: 00528252), as an Additional Director of the Company
and also as an Independent Director in terms of Sections
149, 150, 152, Schedule IV and other applicable provisions
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with Companies
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 and
amendments thereto [including any statutory modification(s) or
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force], to hold office
for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years effective from May 24,
2023 to May 23, 2028, not liable to retire by rotation and subject
to the approval of the Shareholders.
The Company has, in terms of Section 160(1) of the Act, received
in writing a notice from Member, proposing her candidature for
the office of Director.
Ms. Meena Ganesh has given a declaration to the Board that she
meets the criteria of independence as provided under Section
149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’), and is
not restrained from acting as a Director under any order passed
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India or any such
authority and is eligible to be appointed as a Director in terms of
Section 164 of the Act.
Further, the Company has also received following declarations/
confirmations from her:
i.

consent in writing to act as Director;

ii.	declaration that she is not disqualified under section 164(2)
of the Act; and
iii.	
declaration to the effect that she is not debarred from
holding the office of Director pursuant to any order issued
by the SEBI.
In terms of Regulation 25(8) of Listing Regulations, Ms. Meena
Ganesh has confirmed that she is not aware of any circumstance
or situation that exists or may be reasonably anticipated that
could impair or impact her ability to discharge the duties.
In the opinion of the Board, Ms. Meena Ganesh possesses
the relevant expertise/experience, and meets the conditions
specified in the Act and the Listing Regulations for appointment
as an Independent Director and she is independent of the
management.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

Given her experience, the Board considers it desirable and in
the interest of the Company to have Ms. Meena Ganesh on the
Board of the Company and accordingly, the Board recommends
the appointment of Meena Ganesh as an Independent Director
as proposed in the Resolution no. 6 for approval by the
Shareholders as a Special Resolution.
Except for Ms. Meena Ganesh and/or her relatives, no other
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, or their respective
relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or
otherwise, in the said Resolution.
Disclosures, as required under Regulation 36 of the Listing
Regulations and Secretarial Standard-2 on General Meetings
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, are
annexed to this Notice.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

79

The terms and conditions of appointment of the Independent
Directors are uploaded on the website of the Company https://
www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/board-ofdirectors and is available for inspection.
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited)
Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Place: Bengaluru
Date: July 11, 2023
Registered Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 68473700

80

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Annexure I to AGM Notice
DETAILS OF THE DIRECTOR SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE 4TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING [PURSUANT TO SECRETARIAL
STANDARD 2 (SS-2) ISSUED BY THE INSTITUTE OF COMPANY SECRETARIES OF INDIA (ICSI) AND REGULATION 36 OF THE
SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015]
Name of the Director

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

Ms. Meena Ganesh

DIN

08598862

00528252

Date of Birth & Age

May 16, 1963 (60 Years)

August 31, 1963 (60 Years)

Nationality

Finnish

Indian

Date of Appointment
on the Board

February 25, 2021

May 24, 2023

Qualifications

M.Sc. in Economics from the Hanken
School of Economics, Finland.

PGDM from IIM Calcutta and graduate degree in Physics from
the Madras University.

Expertise in specific
functional area

Power grid business and please refer
information mentioned above and
brief profile section.

Diverse business knowledge and please refer information
mentioned in brief profile section.

Shareholding in the
Company

NIL

NIL

Directorship held in
other companies

1. Hitachi Energy Sweden AB

1. CRM Holdings Private Limited
2. Healthvista India Limited
3. Portea Medical Private Limited
4. Ezeesmart Education Private Limited
5. Takecare Technology Private Limited
6. Qtrove Services Private Limited
7. Hygiene Bigbite Private Limited
8. Starvista Celebrities Private Limited
9. Curated Marketplaces Private Limited
10. Rocket Logistics Private Limited
11. Pfizer Limited
12. Procter & Gamble Hygiene and Healthcare Limited
13. Axis Bank Limited

Committee positions
held in other
companies

NIL

2. Hitachi Energy (China) Ltd

S.
No.

Name of
Company

Name of the
Committees

Position
(Member /
Chairperson)

1.

Pfizer Limited

Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee

Member

2.

Pfizer Limited

Risk Management
Committee

Member

3.

Procter & Gamble Audit Committee
Hygiene and
Healthcare Limited

Member

4.

Procter & Gamble Risk Management
Committee
Hygiene and
Healthcare Limited

Member

5.

Axis Bank Limited

Audit Committee

Member

6.

Axis Bank Limited

Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee

Chairperson

7.

Axis Bank Limited

Corporate Social
Responsibility
Committee

Member

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

8.

Healthvista India
Limited

Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee

Member

9.

Healthvista India
Limited

Audit Committee

Member

10.

Healthvista India
Limited

Risk Management
Committee

Member

11.

Healthvista India
Limited

Corporate Social
Responsibility
Committee

Member

12.

Healthvista India
Limited

IPO Committee

Chairperson

Number of Board
Meetings attended
during the financial
year 2022-23

During the financial year 2022-23, he Not applicable since the appointment is effective from
has attended all 4 Board meetings.
May 24, 2023.

Relationships with
other Directors,
Manager and other
Key Managerial
Personnel of the
Company

He is not related to any other Director She is not related to any other Director and / or Key Managerial
and / or Key Managerial Personnel of Personnel of the Company.
the Company.

Remuneration
details (last drawn
remuneration
including Sitting Fees
& Commission)

Not drawing any remuneration or Not Applicable
commission or sitting fees in the
capacity of Director from the Company.

Details of
remuneration sought
to be paid

NIL

Not Applicable

Occupation

Service

Service

81

82

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Brief Profile

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka is the NonExecutive
and
Non-Independent
Director of the Company. Ismo Haka is
the CFO of Hitachi Energy Ltd. Before
this, he held numerous senior financial
positions in ABB: CFO of ABB Power
Grids (2016-2020); CFO of Power
Products Division (2012-2016) which
was then merged into the Power Grids
Division; North America Regional and
USA Country CFO (2008-2012) and
Process Automation Division CFO
(2004 to 2008).

Ms. Meena Ganesh is the Co-founder & Chairperson of Portea
Medical (www.portea.com), India’s leading and home healthcare
company, which she co-founded in July 2013. The company has
3000+ employees and operations across 20+ cities in India, and
brings in-home to patients, the full range of geriatric, chronic,
post-operative care as well as allied healthcare services. As a
partner of the platform, Growthstory.in, one of India’s largest
entrepreneurship platforms, she is also co-promoter of nearly a
dozen, new-age Internet/ Technology enabled start-ups namely
Bigbasket, Bluestone, HomeLane, and Verloop.io.
Meena’s career spans across organisations such as TutorVista,
Pearson Education Services, Tesco Hindustan Service Centre,
CustomerAsset, Microsoft India, PWC and NIIT. Meena serves
on the Board of Pfizer India, P&G Health & Hygiene Limited and
Axis Bank.
Meena has been recognized by Forbes Asia – 50 Over 50
(2022) for shattering age and gender norms all over the globe
and also featured in the list of Top 20 Outstanding Female
Business Leaders by Forbes Asia 2021. She has been part of
Fortune India’s 50 ‘Most Powerful Women in Business’ for seven
consecutive years (2015 - 2021).

Key terms and
conditions of
appointment

He is a Non-Executive, Non-Independent
Director of the Company. He is required
to comply with the applicable provisions
of the Companies Act and SEBI
Regulations and other applicable laws.

She is appointed as Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
of the Company. She is required to comply with the applicable
provisions of the Companies Act and SEBI Regulations and
other applicable laws.

By Order of the Board of Directors
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Place: Bengaluru
Date: July 11, 2023
Registered Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 68473700

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

83

Board’s Report
Dear Members,
The Board of Directors is pleased to present the 4th Annual Report covering the business and operations of Hitachi Energy India
Limited (“the Company”) along with the Company’s audited financials for the year ended March 31, 2023.

1.

Financial Results:



(Amount in ₹ Crores)
Particulars
Revenue from Operations
Add: Other Income

FY 2022-23

FP 2021-22

From 01.04.2022 to
31.03.2023

From 01.01.2021 to
31.03.2022

4,468.51

4,883.96

15.14

66.94

Total Income

4,483.65

4,950.90

Less: Total Expenses

4,352.83

4,710.16

130.82

240.74

Profit before tax and exceptional items
Less: Exceptional items

-

(35.85)

Profit before tax and after exceptional items

130.82

276.59

Tax expense

36.92

73.19

Profit after tax

93.90

203.40

Add: Other Comprehensive Income

1.74

4.95

Total Comprehensive Income

95.64

208.35

-

-

Balance brought forward from the previous year

Balance of retained earnings transferred pursuant to the scheme of arrangement

608.39

408.52

Amount available for appropriation

704.03

616.87

Appropriations:
Equity dividend paid

12.72

8.48

Tax on equity dividend paid

-

-

Debenture redemption reserve

-

-

General reserve

-

-

691.31

608.39

22.16

47.99

Balance carried forward
Key ratios:
Earnings per share (₹)

Note: Previous year’s figures have been regrouped/reclassified wherever necessary to correspond with the current year’s classification/
disclosure.

2.

Performance Review:
During the financial year ended March 31, 2023, orders
touched ₹ 6,817.20 Crores, as against ₹ 4,548.10 Crores
during the year ended March 31, 2022. The orders
witnessed healthy growth, reflecting the technology
push and continued traction in transformers and system
integration. The order backlog at the end of the year stood
at ₹ 7,070.91 Crores (March 31, 2022 was ₹ 4,672.29),
which continued to provide visibility to the future
revenue streams. The total income of your Company
for the financial year ended March 31, 2023 stood at
₹ 4,483.65 Crores (March 31, 2022 was ₹ 4,950.90 Crores),
reflecting stability of operations in an uncertain market
situation. Profit before tax after exceptional items was
₹ 130.82 Crores (March 31, 2022 was ₹ 276.59 Crores),
mainly impacted due to chips and electronic shortages
and commodity price fluctuations. Accordingly, net
profit after tax was ₹ 93.90 Crores (March 31, 2022 was

₹ 203.40 Crores). The earnings per share for the financial
year ended March 31, 2023, stood at ₹ 22.16 (March 31,
2022, was ₹ 47.99).
For detailed analysis of the performance, including
industry overview, changes, and outlook, please refer
to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report
provided in Annexure-A, forming part of this Report.
There has been no change in the nature of business
during the financial year under review.

3.

Management Discussion and Analysis Report:
Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the
year under review, as stipulated under the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing
Regulations”), is presented in Annexure-A, forming part
of the Annual Report.

84

4.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Grids business in 2020. Thus, Hitachi Ltd. now holds
100% of the equity stake in Hitachi Energy Ltd., (Zurich,
Switzerland), which is the holding Company which
presently holds 75% stake in your Company. The solid
commitment from Hitachi to the announced acquisition
of the remaining shares of Hitachi Energy ahead of plan
will help in accelerating and enabling the agile and
committed team to support customers and partners
addressing the global challenge of the energy transition,
while continuing to deliver strong financial performance
and creating value.

Glimpse of Rebranding and Consolidation:
Hitachi Energy India Limited (formerly known as ABB
Power Products and Systems India Limited) (“the
Company”) underwent a significant transformation
since its inception with several noteworthy milestones.
Firstly, the Scheme of Arrangement (“Scheme”) which
was entered into between (i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”
/ “Transferor”) and (ii) Hitachi Energy India Limited
[Formerly known as (ABB Power Products and Systems
India Ltd or APPSIL)] (“Company” / “Transferee”) and
their respective shareholders and creditors, pursuant
to the provisions of Section 230 to 232 and other
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,
(“Act”) which provided for inter alia the Demerger
of the Power Grids Business of INABB (“Demerged
Undertaking”) and the consequent issuance of equity
shares by your Company to the shareholders of INABB
as per the share entitlement ratio, which was approved
by the National Company Law Tribunal, Bengaluru
Bench (“NCLT”) on November 27, 2019, allowed Hitachi
Energy India Limited to concentrate its resources on its
core business areas, enhance operational efficiency,
and maximize value for its stakeholders.
In addition, 3,17,86,256 equity shares aggregating 75%
of the paid-up capital of your Company was transferred
from ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd to ABB Ltd by way
of dividend in kind, and subsequently from ABB Ltd
to Hitachi Energy Ltd (formerly known as Hitachi ABB
Power Grids AG) as contribution in kind (as disclosed by
the Shareholders) on February 05, 2021.
Consequent to this, your Company underwent a name
change from “ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited” to “Hitachi Energy India Limited” with
effect from November 12, 2021, following the rebranding
of its parent Company as Hitachi Energy Ltd. and in
keeping with its’ vision of becoming a part of Hitachi
Energy group. This change reaffirms your Company’s
commitment to advance a sustainable energy future for
all in India. With its new brand name – Hitachi Energy
India – the business will be able to effectively position
its pioneering technologies and services to existing
and future customers expanding beyond the grid –
opening up a breadth of opportunities in areas such
as sustainable mobility and smart life, and contributing
further economic, environmental and social value. In
continuation to the change in name of the Company,
the Memorandum of Association and Articles of
Association of your Company were also amended
involving name change and the financial year of the
Company was changed from January 01 - December
31 to April 01 - March 31. Necessary approvals from
various regulatory authorities, as applicable in this
regard was secured by the Company from time to time.
Furthermore, on December 28, 2022, Hitachi Ltd., an
ultimate parent entity of the Company has completed
the previously announced acquisition of ABB Ltd.’s
remaining 19.9% equity stake in Hitachi Energy Ltd.,
a Joint Venture that was formed from ABB’s Power

5.

Dividend & Reserves:
Declaration and payment of dividend:
The Board of Directors has recommended a final
dividend of ₹ 3.40 (Three Rupees and Forty Paise only)
per equity share for the financial year ended March 31,
2023 on 4,23,81,675 equity shares of ₹ 2 each, fully
paid.
The dividend recommended is in accordance with the
Company’s Dividend Distribution Policy.
Dividend Distribution Policy:
In terms of the provisions of Regulation 43A of the
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015, the Company has in place a Dividend
Distribution Policy which is accessible at the Company’s
website https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investorrelations/corporate-governance#policies
Book Closure:
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of
the Company will remain closed from August 11, 2023 to
August 17, 2023 (both days inclusive) to determine the
eligible shareholders to receive the dividend for the year
ended March 31, 2023 and accordingly, the record date
for dividend will be Thursday, August 10, 2023.
According to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend income
will be taxable in the hands of the Members w.e.f.
April 1, 2020, and the Company is required to deduct
tax at source from the dividend paid to the Members at
prescribed rates as per the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Unclaimed dividends:
Details of outstanding and unclaimed dividends
previously declared and paid by the Company are given
under the Corporate Governance Report.
Transfer to Investor Education and Protection Fund:
As per the applicable provisions of the Companies
Act 2013, read with IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit,
Transfer and Refund) Rules 2016 (‘the Rules’), all unpaid
or unclaimed dividends are required to be transferred
by the Company to the IEPF established by the Central
Government, after completion of seven years and the

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid
or claimed by the members for seven consecutive years
or more shall also be transferred to the Demat account
created by IEPF Authority.

Report. Also, there has been no change in the nature of
business of the Company.
Update on COVID-19:
While the severity of the disease due to COVID-19 has
reduced because of increased vaccination, as immunity
may wane over a period of time, there is a risk of further
waves and the emergence of highly transmissible and
more virulent variants.

Further, pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement [entered
into between (i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”/“Transferor”)
and (ii) Hitachi Energy India Limited (Formerly known
as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
(“the Company”) and their respective shareholders
and creditors] approved by NCLT vide its order dated
November 27, 2019, the Company directly allotted
1,07,421 Equity Shares to the shareholders of ABB India
Limited in accordance with the Share Entitlement Ratio
pertaining to the relevant shares of ABB India Limited
lying with IEPF.

8.

The details of the above are provided on the website of
the Company at: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/
investor-relations/shareholder-information#iepf

9.

For the financial year under review, your Company has
proposed not to transfer any amount to the General
Reserves.

6.

Share Capital:
As of March 31, 2023, the authorized share capital of the
Company was ₹ 10 Crores comprising of 5,00,00,000
equity shares of ₹ 2 each, and the paid-up equity
share capital as of March 31, 2023, was ₹ 8.48 Crores
comprising of 4,23,81,675 equity shares of ₹ 2 each.
During the year under review, the Company had neither
issued any shares nor instruments convertible into
equity shares of the Company or with differential voting
rights nor has granted any sweat equity.

7.

In the situation of the COVID-19 pandemic, vaccination
camps were organized across the Company locations
in coordination with hospitals, for employees, their
families, third party(ies), as well as contract staff. Regular
engagement and monitoring enabled a quick completion
of both vaccination doses along with booster doses.

Accordingly, the dividend declared for the financial
period 2021-22 and financial year 2022-23 pertaining to
the shares remaining with IEPF authorities has also been
transferred to the Investor Education and Protection
Fund account from time to time.

Transfer to Reserves:

Material Changes and Commitment affecting
the Financial Position:
While the economy was in the grip of Covid-19 for the
past two years, the Company maintained business
continuity, showed remarkable endurance in difficult
times, and ensured its customers met all mission-critical
project timelines. Furthermore, the Ukraine situation,
semiconductor shortages, and supply chain disruptions
continue to weigh on the economy and our sector in
particular. Despite the fact that the number of current
cases of Covid-19 has decreased significantly, there are
still concerns about a sustained economic recovery due
to a variety of other impacting variables.
With this, there were no material changes affecting the
financial position of the Company that took place after
the close of the financial year 2022-23 till the date of this

85

Subsidiary/ Joint Venture or Associate Company:
During the financial year under review, the Company
did not have any subsidiary, joint venture or associate
Company.

Expansion/ Addition of new manufacturing
facilities:
Your Company added new manufacturing facilities,
the details of which are provided under Management
Discussion and Analysis section of this Report.

10. Credit Rating:
The Company had outstanding short-term borrowings
of ₹ 275 Crores as on March 31, 2023 utilized from the
established credit lines with banks.
CRISIL Ratings Limited has reaffirmed the long-term
and short-term credit ratings for ₹ 6000 Crores bank
facilities (enhanced from ₹ 5000 Crores) of the Company.
CRISIL has assigned ‘CRISIL A1+’ as Short-Term Rating
and assigned ‘CRISIL AAA/Stable’ ratings as a LongTerm Rating effective from July 08, 2022.
The Company’s financial discipline and prudence are
reflected in the strong credit ratings ascribed by rating
agencies. The details of credit ratings are disclosed
in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report,
which forms part of this Board’s Report.

11. Board of Directors
Personnel:

and

Key

Managerial

As at March 31, 2023, the Board of Directors comprised
6 Directors of which 1 is Executive Director, 2 are
Non-Executive Directors and 3 are Non-Executive,
Independent Directors.
•

Mr. Nuguri Venu (DIN: 07032076), Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer is the
Executive Director.

•

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka (DIN:08598862) and
Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN:08596097) are the
Non-Executive, Non- Independent Directors.

86

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

•

Mr. Mukesh Butani, Ms. Akila Krishnakumar
and Ms. Nishi Vasudeva are the Independent
Directors.

The composition of the Board of Directors is in due
compliance with the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015.
None of the Directors of the Company are disqualified
under Section 164(2) of the Companies Act, 2013.
Key Managerial Personnel:
Mr. Nuguri Venu (DIN: 07032076), Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Ajay Singh, Chief
Financial Officer, and Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda,
General
Counsel,
Company
Secretary
and
Compliance Officer are the Key Managerial Personnel
in accordance with the provisions of Section 203 of
the Companies Act, 2013. There was no change in the
Key Managerial Personnel during the year.
Appointment/ Re-Appointment of Directors:
Based on the recommendations of the Nomination &
Remuneration Committee (NRC) and Board of Directors,
the shareholders at the third Annual General Meeting
held on July 22, 2022, approved the re-appointments of:
•

Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN:08596097),
Non-Executive Director who retired by rotation.

•

Mr. Mukesh Butani (DIN: 01452839), Ms. Akila
Krishnakumar (DIN: 06629992) and Ms. Nishi
Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) as an Independent
Directors for a second term of five (5) years effective
from December 24, 2022, to December 23, 2027.

•

Mr. Nuguri Venu (DIN: 07032076), Managing
Director and CEO of the Company for a further
period of five (5) years effective from December 2,
2022 to December 1, 2027.

Details of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and
Composition of various Committees of the Board are
provided in the Corporate Governance Report forming
part of this report.
Change in Composition of Board of Directors:
Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) has resigned from
the position of Independent Director of the Company
effective from May 24, 2023.
Pursuant to the recommendation of Nomination and
Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors of
the Company at their Meeting held on May 24, 2023,
approved the appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh
(DIN: 00528252) as an Additional Director in the
capacity of Independent Director for a term of 5 (five)
years, effective from May 24, 2023 to May 23, 2028,
subject to approval of the Shareholders of the Company
at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The necessary
Resolution for her appointment is being placed for

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

the approval of Shareholders as part of the Notice
convening the 4th Annual General Meeting.
Further, in accordance with the Articles of Association of
the Company and the provisions of Section 152(6)(e) of
the Companies Act, 2013, Mr. Ismo Antero Haka (DIN:
08598862), Director, retires by rotation at the ensuing
Annual General Meeting, and being eligible, offer himself
for re-appointment.
A brief resume of Ms. Meena Ganesh and Mr. Ismo
Antero Haka proposed to be appointed and re-appointed
respectively, including the nature of their expertise in
specific functional areas and names of the Companies in
which they hold Directorship/ Membership/ Chairmanship
of the Board or Committees, as stipulated under SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement
Regulations, 2015 is provided as an annexure to the
Notice convening the 4th Annual General Meeting.
Declaration of Independent Directors:
The Company’s Independent Directors have submitted
requisite declarations confirming that they continue
to meet the criteria of independence as prescribed
under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and
Regulation 16(1)(b) read with Regulation 25 of SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 and they have registered their names
in the Independent Directors’ Databank.
The Independent Directors have also given their
undertaking stating that they are not aware of any event
or incident that exists or might reasonably be anticipated
that could impair or damage their capacity to fulfil their
duties objectively and independently.
Familiarization Program for Independent Directors:
The Company has implemented a program to familiarize
its Independent Directors. The program’s primary
objective is to familiarise Independent Directors on our
Board with the Company’s business, industry in which
the Company operates, business model, challenges,
and so on, through a variety of programmes that include
regular meetings with our business leads and functional
heads, as well as interaction with subject matter experts
within the Company.
The familiarization program and other disclosures as
specified under the Listing Regulations is available on
the Company’s website at https://www.hitachienergy.
com/in/en/investor-relations/board-of-directors
Selection and Procedure for Nomination and
Appointment of Directors and Nomination and
Remuneration Policy of the Company:
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of
the Company is entrusted to determine the criteria for the
requirements of the Board. NRC, while recommending
candidature to the Board, takes into consideration the
qualification, attributes, experience and independence
of the candidate.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

Pursuant to Section 178(3) of the Companies Act,
2013, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
of the Board has formulated, amongst others, a policy
on Nomination and Remuneration which provides the
framework for remunerating the members of the Board,
Key Managerial Personnel, Senior Management and
other employees of the Company. This Policy is guided
by the principles and objectives enumerated in Section
178(4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
The details of the Nomination and Remuneration Policy
are mentioned in the report on Corporate Governance
and the same is also placed on the Company’s website at
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/
board-of-directors
Disclosures pertaining to remuneration and other details
as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act,
2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
are provided in the prescribed format and annexed as
Annexure-B forming an integral part of this Report.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

87

12. Board Meetings:
During the year under review, the Board of Directors of
the Company met four (4) times on the following dates:
•

May 26, 2022 (adjourned and concluded on
May 27, 2022)

•

July 21, 2022

•

November 4, 2022

•

February 6, 2023

In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,
2013, a separate meeting of the Independent Directors
of the Company was held on May 26, 2022.
Committees of the Board:
As required under the Act and the Listing Regulations,
the Company has constituted the following committees:
i.

Audit Committee

ii.

Nomination and Remuneration Committee

iii.

Stakeholders Relationship Committee

Annual Performance Evaluation of the Board:

iv.

Risk Management Committee

The Board, along with the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, has approved a performance evaluation
framework in the form of a questionnaire for annual
evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Individual
Directors pursuant to the provisions of the Companies
Act, 2013 and the Corporate Governance requirements
under Regulation 25(4) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 read with
SEBI’s Guidance Note on Board Evaluation.

v.

Corporate Social Responsibility

vi.

Environment, Social and Governance (ESG)
Committee

During the year under review, the Board of Directors
have carried out an annual evaluation of its own
performance, Board Committees, and Individual
Directors. The Board evaluation was conducted through
a questionnaire designed with qualitative parameters
and feedback based on ratings.
Further, the performance evaluation of the Independent
Directors was carried out by the entire Board. The
performance evaluation of the Chairman, the Board as
a whole and the Non-Independent Directors was carried
out by the Independent Directors at their separate
meeting held during the year.
The questionnaire was circulated to all the Board
members of the Company in a transparent and
confidential manner. The key parameters considered
for Board evaluation were Board Membership, Board’s
Culture and Relationships with Key Constituencies,
Board Responsibilities, Decision Making and Board
Committees. During the evaluation process, the
Directors have given ratings of either ‘Strongly agree’ /
‘Agree’ on various assessment questions.
A consolidated report was shared with the Chairman of
the Board for his review and feedback to each Director.

A detailed note on the composition of various
Committees of the Board and their Meetings including
the terms of references are given in the Corporate
Governance Report forming part of this Board’s Report.
Further, pursuant to resignation of Ms. Nishi Vasudeva
and appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh as an
Independent Director of the Company, the Board
of Directors at their Board Meeting held on May 24,
2023, has reconstituted the composition of certain
Committees with effect from May 24, 2023.

13. Directors’ Responsibility Statement:
The Board of Directors hereby confirms that:
a.

in the preparation of the annual financial
statements, the applicable accounting standards
have been followed along with proper explanation
relating to material departures.

b.

they have selected such accounting policies and
applied them consistently and made judgments
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
so as to give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company at the end of the financial
year and of the profit and loss of the Company for
that period;

c.

they have taken proper and sufficient care for the
maintenance of adequate accounting records
in accordance with the provisions of this Act for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and
for preventing and detecting fraud and other
irregularities;

88

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

d.

they have prepared the annual financial statements
on a going concern basis.

e.

they have laid down internal financial controls
to be followed by the Company and that such
internal financial controls are adequate and were
operating effectively; and

f.

they have devised proper systems to ensure
compliance with the provisions of all applicable
laws and that such systems were adequate and
operating effectively.

14. Corporate Governance Report:
The Company is committed to upholding the highest
standards of Corporate Governance and follows the
Corporate Governance requirements set out by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”). In
addition, the Company has included various best
governance practices.
In terms of Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V
of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, a separate section
on Corporate Governance including a certificate from
M/s V. Sreedharan & Associates, Practicing Company
Secretaries confirming compliance is annexed as
Annexure-C, forming an integral part of this Report.

15. Statutory Auditors:
Pursuant to provisions of Section 139 of the Act
read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,
2014, M/s. S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP, Chartered
Accountants (Registration No. 101049W/ E300004)
were appointed as Statutory Auditors, for a period of
five years, to hold office from the conclusion of first
Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the
sixth Annual General Meeting at such remuneration
as may be mutually agreed amongst by the Board of
Directors and the Statutory Auditors.
There are no qualifications or adverse remarks in the
Statutory Auditor’s Report for the financial statements
for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, which
requires any explanation from the Board of Directors.

16. Cost Audit and Cost Auditors of the Company:
In terms of the provisions of Section 148 of the Act read
with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules,
2014, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of
the Audit Committee, appointed M/s. Ashwin Solanki &
Associates, Cost Accountants (Registration No: 100392)
as Cost Auditor of the Company, for the financial year
2023-24 for conducting the audit of the cost records
maintained by your Company.
A certificate from M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates,
Cost Accountants has been received to the effect that
their appointment as Cost Auditor of the Company, if

made, would be in accordance with the limits specified
under Section 141 of the Act and Rules framed
thereunder and they are not disqualified to be appointed
as Cost Auditor.
A Resolution seeking Shareholders’ approval for
remuneration payable to Cost Auditor forms part
of the Notice convening the fourth Annual General
Meeting of your Company and same is recommended
for your consideration. Cost Audit and Compliance
reports for the financial period 2021-22 were filed with
the Registrar of Companies, within the prescribed
time limit.

17. Secretarial Audit:
Pursuant to provisions of Section 204 of the Act read
with Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
and amendments thereto, the Board of Directors
of the Company have appointed BMP & Co. LLP
(LLPIN: AAI-4194), Company Secretaries, Bengaluru,
to conduct the Secretarial Audit for the financial
year 2022-23.
The Secretarial Audit Report (Form MR-3) for the
financial year ended March 31, 2023, is annexed as
Annexure-D forming an integral part of this Report.
The Secretarial Audit Report does not contain any
qualification, reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer.

18. Secretarial Standards:
The Board of Directors affirms that the Company has
complied with applicable Secretarial Standards on
board meetings and general meetings issued by the
Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI).

19. Branch Offices:
During the year under review, the Company has branch
offices in Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. All these
branch offices are operational. The branch offices are
undertaking business operations in respective countries.
The branches play a key role in supporting the Company
to penetrate the market by providing local support for
various business activities.
Through these branches, your Company is engaged
with a wide spectrum of customers (Utilities, Industries,
Distributors, OEMs etc.) in their respective countries.

20. Branch Auditors:
In terms of provisions of sub-section (8) of Section 143
of the Act read with Rule 12 of the Companies (Audit
and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the audit of the accounts
of the branch offices of the Company located outside
India is required to be conducted by the person(s) or
firm(s) qualified to act as Branch Auditors in accordance
with the laws of that country.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

89

In this regard, the Company has secured the Shareholders’
approval at its Third Annual General Meeting held on July
21, 2022 for authorizing the Board of Directors/ Audit
Committee to appoint Branch Auditors for any branch
office of the Company from time to time.

24. Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments:

The Board of Directors at their Meeting held on
February 6, 2023 has appointed the following branch
auditors for the Branch Offices of the Company to
conduct the audit for the financial year 2022-23:

25. Borrowing Limits:

Branch office of
the Company

Name of Branch Auditors

Md. Abdus Satter Sarkar, FCA, Partner of
Bangladesh Branch Mahfel Huq & Co., Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration Number: P-46323)
Sri Lanka Branch

Keerthi Mihiripenna & Co, Chartered
Accountants (Firm Registration Number: WP
1419 ), Colombo

Nepal Branch

Shashi Satyal, Partner of TR Upadhya & Co.,
Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration
Number: 6)

21. Environment, Social and Governance (ESG)
Committee and Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report (BRSR):
The Company is on a continuous improvement journey
for creating long-term value for its stakeholders.
In accordance with the guidance note for Environment,
Social and Governance Reporting issued by the SEBI,
the Company has constituted the Environment, Social
and Governance (ESG) Committee at its Board Meeting
held on October 22, 2021.
The details of the performance and reporting under ESG
as a part of mandatory disclosure from the financial
year under review are included under the Business
Responsibility and Sustainability Report forming part of
the Board’s Report.
Further, the sustainability initiatives taken by the
Company including sustainable development goals
from an environmental, social and governance
perspective is available on the Company’s website and
can be accessed at https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/
en/sustainability/sustainability-overview

22. Significant and material orders passed by the
regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the
going concern status of the Company:
During the financial year under review, no significant
and material orders were passed by the regulators or
courts or tribunals impacting the going concern status
of the Company.

23. Deposits:
During the year under review, the Company has neither
invited nor accepted any deposits falling under the
ambit of Section 73 of the Act and the Companies
(Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 framed
thereunder.

During the financial year under review, the Company has
not granted any Loans, Guarantees, or made investments
within the meaning of Section 186 of the Act.

The Board of Directors of your Company, at their Meeting
held on May 24, 2023 has approved and recommended
to the Shareholders for approval to increase the
existing borrowing limits of the Company from ₹ 6,000
Crores to ₹ 6,500 Crores by enhancing the fund based
limit by ₹ 500 Crores. As a result, the revised borrowing
limits would be ₹ 6,500 Crores (Rupees Six Thousand
Five Hundred crores only) consisting of ₹ 1,500 Crores
towards fund based limits and ₹ 5,000 Crores towards
non-fund based borrowings facilities.
The Resolution for increase in borrowing limits of the
Company is subject to approval of the Shareholders
in the ensuing 4th Annual General Meeting of the
Company.

26. Related Party Transactions:
The Board of Directors has adopted a policy on Related
Party Transactions. The objective is to ensure proper
approval, disclosure, and reporting of transactions
as applicable, between the Company and any of its
related parties. The policy on related party transactions
is available at https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/
investor-relations/corporate-governance#policies
Particulars of the Contracts or Arrangements with related
parties referred to in Section 188(1) in the format specified
as Form AOC-2 forms part of this Report as Annexure-E.
Further details of related party transactions are provided
in Notes to Financial Statements.
All contracts or arrangements with related parties
were entered into only with prior approval of the Audit
Committee, except transactions that qualified as
Omnibus transactions as permitted under law.
There were no materially significant related party
transactions that could have potential conflict with the
interests of the Company at large.
Details of the transaction(s) of the Company with the
entity(ies) belonging to the promoter/promoter group
which hold(s) more than 10% shareholding in the
Company as required under Para A of Schedule V of the
Listing Regulations are provided as part of the financial
statements.

27. Internal financial control systems and their
adequacy:
The Directors have laid down internal financial
controls to be followed by the Company and such
policies and procedures adopted by the Company
for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its
business, including adherence to the Company’s
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention

90

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and
completeness of the accounting records and the
timely preparation of reliable financial information.
The Audit Committee evaluates the internal financial
control system periodically. The details of Internal
Control System and their adequacy are provided in the
Management Discussion and Analysis section forming
part of this report.

28. Audit Committee:
During the year under review, there was no change in
the composition of the Audit Committee. The powers
and role of the Audit Committee are included in the
Corporate Governance Report, which forms an integral
part of the Board’s Report. All the recommendations
made by the Audit Committee were accepted by the
Board of Directors.

29. Reporting of frauds:
There was no instance of fraud during the financial year
under review, reported by the Statutory Auditors, Cost
Auditors and Secretarial Auditors that were required to
be reported to the Audit Committee and/or Board under
Section 143(12) of the Act and Rules framed thereunder.

30. Whistle Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism:
The Company has adopted a whistle blower policy/
vigil mechanism for Directors, Employees and third
parties to report their concerns about unethical
behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the
Company’s Code of Conduct, leak of unpublished
price sensitive information and related matters.
This mechanism also provides adequate safeguards
against the victimization of whistle blowers who avail
of the mechanism. The whistle blowers may also
access their higher level/ supervisors and/ or the Audit
Committee. The Whistle Blower Policy is available at
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/
corporate-governance#policies

31. Risk Management Policy:
The Company has in place the Risk Management Policy
and constituted the Risk Management Committee
as required under the Companies Act, 2013 and
Regulation 21 of SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Committee oversees the Risk Management
process
including
risk
identification,
impact
assessment, effective implementation of the mitigation
plans and risk reporting. The purpose of the Committee
is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its
oversight responsibilities with regard to enterprise risk
management.
The details of the Committee and its terms of reference
are set out in the Corporate Governance Report and
Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report forming
part of this Report.

32. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR):
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee has
been constituted in accordance with Section 135 of the
Companies Act, 2013. The details of the composition
of the Committee, scope and functions are listed in
the Corporate Governance Report annexed to this
Board’s Report.
The CSR Policy formulated by the Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee and approved by the Board
continues unchanged. The policy can be accessed at
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/
corporate-governance#other-reports
During the year under review, the Company has spent
₹ 1.63 Crores on CSR activities (both ongoing and other
than ongoing projects). The Annual Report on CSR
activities as required under Section 135 of the Companies
Act, 2013, read with Rule 8(1) of the Companies (Corporate
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, is annexed as
Annexure-F forming an integral part of this Report.

33. Annual Return:
Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act 2013,
read with Rule 12 of the Companies (Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014, the Company has placed
a copy of the annual return on its website and the
same is available at https://www.hitachienergy.com/
in/en/investor-relations/general-meetings#annualgeneralmeeting

34. Conservation of energy, technology absorption,
foreign exchange earnings and outgo:
The particulars relating to the Conservation of Energy,
Technology Absorption, Foreign Exchange Earnings and
Outgo, as required to be disclosed under Section 134(3)
(m) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Companies
(Accounts) Rules, 2014, is provided in Annexure-G
forming an integral part of this Report.

35. Particulars of Employees including
Remuneration of Directors and Employees:
The details related to remuneration and other details
of the employees drawing remuneration under Section
197(12) of the Act read with Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of
the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 forms part of this
Report. None of the employees listed as per above are
related to any Director / KMP of the Company.
In terms of Section 136(1) of the Companies Act,
2013 and the Rules made there under, the Annual
Report is being sent to the Shareholders and others
entitled thereto excluding the aforesaid disclosure. Any
Shareholder interested in obtaining the same may write
to the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer at
investors@hitachienergy.com.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

36. Disclosure as per the Sexual Harassment of
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, 2013:
The Company has in place a policy in accordance with
the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women
at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013, and the Rules thereunder that mandates
no tolerance against any conduct amounting to sexual
harassment of women at the workplace.
The Company has also constituted an Internal
Complaints Committee (ICC) for reporting and
conducting inquiries into the complaints made by the
victim on harassment at the workplace. Throughout the
year, training and awareness events are held to instill
sensitivity towards creating a respectful workplace.
During the financial year under review, no complaints
pertaining to sexual harassment of women employees
were received. Further, the Company has a web
portal known as “Hitachi Energy Ethics Web Portal”
wherein employees can report/ raise the workplace
harassment concerns/ related incidents. The
complaints as received via this Portal was redressed
and brought to the attention of the Audit Committee of
the Board from time to time.

37. Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016:
During the financial year under review, neither any
application nor any proceeding was initiated against
the Company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy
Code, 2016.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

91

Equity shares (pursuant to fractional entitlements
of Members of ABB India Limited as per share
entitlement ratio) to Hitachi Energy India Limited
Fractional Shares Trust 2019 (“Trust”) on December
24, 2019. Catalyst Trusteeship Limited (“Catalyst”) is
acting as Trustee to the Trust effective April 30, 2020.
The total amount paid as on March 31, 2023, stood at
₹ 61.17 Lakhs consisting of 19,894 Members eligible
for the value of such fractional shares and the total
amount remained unpaid as on March 31, 2023 stood
at ₹ 2.11 Lakhs pertaining to 725 Members eligible for
the value of such fractional shares.
Further, on November 26, 2022, a reminder letter was
sent through registered post to all unpaid shareholders
wherein the Company has requested the unclaimed
shareholders to claim the unclaimed fractional
share sale proceeds by submitting the Letter-CumIndemnity in the format shared with them.

39. Acknowledgements:
The Board of Directors wishes to place on record their
appreciation for all the guidance and cooperation
received from its parent Company and all its customers,
members, suppliers, investors, shareholders, vendors,
partners, bankers, associates, government authorities
and other stakeholders for their consistent support to
the Company in its operations.
The Board of Directors also records their appreciation
of the dedication of all the employees at all levels
and their commitment to ensuring that the Company
continues to grow.

38. Fractional Shares:
Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, entered
into between (i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”/
“Transferor”) and ii) the Company (“Company”/
“Transferee”) and their respective shareholders
and creditors, in accordance with the provisions of
Section 230 to 232 and other applicable provisions
of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has
allotted shares of the Company to the shareholders
of ABB India Limited in accordance with the share
entitlement ratio.

By order of the Board

Out of the total shares allotted to the shareholders
of ABB India Limited, the Company allotted 9,266

Place: Bengaluru

For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited)
Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

Date: May 24, 2023

92

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Annexure – A to Board’s Report
Management Discussion & Analysis
Industry structure and
developments

bank of India focused on reducing food inflation while continued
Capital Expenditure by the central government - which increased
by 63.4 percent in the first eight months of FY 2022-23 – was a
significant growth driver of the Indian economy in the year.

Economic & market overview

The optimistic growth was bolstered by several positives like
the rebound of private consumption, higher capital expenditure,
near-universal vaccination coverage and the return of market
confidence. India’s economic growth in FY 2022-23 has been
primarily led by domestic consumption and capital formation.
Furthermore, India’s second-largest vaccination drive, involving
more than 2 billion doses, had also lifted consumer sentiments
prolonging the rebound in consumption.

This year, India’s economy outpaced the United Kingdom’s,
making it the fifth-largest economy in the world. After two
disruptive years due to the pandemic, the financial period 202223 was set to be one of global recovery and renewal. Projections
estimated global economic growth in 2022 would be around 5
percent. However, various segments of the economy continued
to face the long-tail impact of this unprecedented adversity
with sustained high-ranging and volatile commodities and
semiconductor prices.
The war in Ukraine was a “massive and historic energy shock”
to the markets, and was one of the main factors that had
slowed global economic growth, according to a November
2022 report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD). In addition to the tragic human toll,
the conflict has crunched supplies of grain, fertilizer and energy
along the value chain, resulting in sharp hike in inflation. The
pandemic-induced contraction of the global output, various
supply chain and logistical bottlenecks from Ukraine, followed
by China’s zero COVID policy exacerbated the situation, and
caused governments to reevaluate their dependency on just-intime globalized supply chains, in some cases giving impetus the
rise of near-shoring and friend-shoring.
Also as a result of high inflation, the central banks across
economies, led by the US Federal Reserve Bank, responded
with synchronized policy rate hikes to curb inflation. The rate hike
by the US Fed drove capital into the US markets, causing the
US Dollar to appreciate against most currencies, which for the
country led to the widening of the Current Account Deficits (CAD)
and increasing inflationary pressures in net importing economies
like India.
The rate hike and persistent inflation also led to a lowering of the
global growth forecasts for 2022 and 2023 by the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) in its October 2022 update of the World
Economic Outlook. This accompanied with geopolitical
challenges further contributed to weakening the growth forecasts.
In FY 2022-23, India faced multiple roadblocks of economic
challenges, with recessionary tendencies in major advanced
economies triggering monetary tightening, central banks
responding with synchronized policy rate hikes to curb inflation.
While supply-side issues threw a spanner in the works the
domestic demand remained robust, providing the much-needed
backing to the Indian economy.
As a result, despite these headwinds, India remained one of the
fastest-growing major economies in FY 2022-23, outpacing some
advanced economies like China. Working in tandem government
and regulators leveraged the twin levers of macroeconomic
policy – fiscal and monetary – to rein in inflation. The central

In its budget for FY 2022-23, the government increased
capital expenditure by 25 percent. Roads, railways, airports,
ports, mass transport, waterways, and logistics infrastructure
were identified as crucial engines to drive PM Gati Shakti
(National Master Plan). To facilitate domestic manufacturing
for the goal of 280 GW of installed solar capacity by 2030,
the government expanded its Production-Linked Incentive
scheme (PLI) to include additional allocation for manufacturing
of high efficiency solar power modules.
This initiative, while encouraging the local capacity buildup as a
part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Campaign, helped India step up
in the global map as a manufacturing destination. Furthermore,
the PLI scheme proved a critical component, to the ongoing
energy transition.
The energy sector continued to garner interest as the country aims
to build sustainable and green future. Following its 2030 target of
meeting half of the energy needs through renewable sources, the
country focused on capacity augmentation, adding more than
15 GW of Renewable Energy(RE) Capacity in FY 2022-23.

Power sector overview
India continued to take concrete steps toward a green
future and a sustainable environment, with ambitious energy
transition goals aligned with the Paris Agreement. The
year 2022-23 marked as an important milestone in India’s
energy journey as the government continued to pursue
decarbonization and power reforms. This year was marked by
some historic reforms toward capacity building for renewable
energy sources, renewable manufacturing boost, electric
mobility, coal gasification, and the also the National Green
Hydrogen Mission demonstrating strong government will to
help the country achieve its energy transition goals.
Some of the major announcements in the journey toward
decarbonization, included the National Green Hydrogen
Mission with an initial outlay of ₹ 19,744 crores. This ambitious
mission aimed at positioning India as a global leader in green
hydrogen production and export, with a target of 1 GW
hydrogen production capacity by 2024-25 and 10 GW by
2030. The incentive focused on producing green hydrogen
and producing electrolyzers and, research and development.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

India has been exploring renewable energy sources like wind,
solar, and biomass to achieve its energy transition goals. As
of the close of 2022, a total of 172.72 GW of capacity from
non-fossil fuel sources was installed in the country accounting
for more than 42 percent of total installed generation capacity in
the country by December 2022. Furthermore, the government
announced developed a Rooftop Solar Scheme and launched
a national portal (solarrooftop.gov.in) for higher participation of
residential consumers for rooftop solar initiative.
India took a big step toward achieving non-fossil fuel-based
electricity installed capacity by announcing a comprehensive
plan to evacuate power from the planned renewable capacity
by 2030. As of March 2023, the installed electricity generating
capacity in the country is 412.2 GW comprising of 168.9 GW
renewable energy generating capacity (including large hydro),
which is about 40 percent of the total installed electricity
generating capacity. India has envisaged to increase the
non-fossil fuel based installed electricity generation capacity
to 500 GW. However, the gestation period of wind and solar
based electricity generation projects is much less than that
of transmission system and hence work on the evacuation
infrastructure needs to commence well in advance. The
government announced Inter-State Transmission System
(ISTS), for more than 500 GW of renewable energy capacity and
transmit the clean energy to the load centers. This plan includes
setting several HVDC transmission corridors for the evacuation
of renewable energy from large potential zones.
Electric vehicle (EV) has been another area of focus - with a
vision of increasing the share of EV sales to 30 percent in private
cars, 70 percent in commercial vehicles, 40 percent in buses,
and 80 percent in two-wheelers and three-wheelers by 2030.
In absolute numbers this would translate to 80 million EVs on
Indian roads by 2030, enabled through initiatives like FAME and
National Electric Bus program. Furthermore, Mission 100 percent
rail electrification continued to bring energy efficient and ecofriendly mobility reducing dependence on imported crude oil.
Datacenters has been another significant demand driver for
electricity. ICRA expects the data center sector to witness a sixfold capacity increase in the next six years. Data center capacity
is set to touch 4,900-5,000 MW from the current <1,000 MW.
The growth in data centers will require a reliable and sustainable
source of electricity.
Such rising electrification, growing industrialization and
consequent urbanization have had its bearing of the power
consumption with the demand growing steadily year on year.
India has been amongst the highest consumer of power.
Last year, the country reached 211GW of power demand, an
all-time high.
In 2022, the rate of power consumption increased by over eight
percent, nearly at the double pace of the Asia Pacific region. In
response to the peaking energy demand, the country supplied
a record high of 4,700 million units. Given the rising appetite
for electrification is likely to continue to outpace addition of
generation capacity this year.

Business overview & strategy
Hitachi Energy is focused on advancing the world’s energy
system, making it more sustainable, flexible and secure. Your
Company’s role is critical as the industry urgency to move away
from fossil fuels is greater than ever. Our society needs an

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

93

evolved power system with electricity as the backbone. By 2050
India will need to transfer three times more electrical energy than
today, 80 percent of which is expected to be from fossil free
sources.
The power system needs to be transformed at unprecedented
speed, and to achieve this, we collaborate with our customers
and other partners to deliver and support a sustainable
energy future, through continuous innovation of technologies,
systems, and equipment. The Company serves customers in
the utility, industry and infrastructure sectors with innovative
solutions and services across the value chain, through four
businesses - Grid Automation, Grid Integration, Transformers
and High Voltage Products.
An extensive portfolio of smart solutions ranging from renewable
integration and energy storage, through enterprise asset
management and e-bus Charging, to energy service, IT, OT and
core traditional products are manufactured across 19 factories
in eight manufacturing locations. Over 2323 employees spread
across manufacturing and 18 sales touch points are committed
to serving over 1,000 customers across the power value chain.
Your Company’s deep footprint, with largest installed base,
and competent local capabilities comprising of researchers,
scientists, production engineers, field engineers and software
developers, and functional talent, are at the center of India’s
clean energy transition.
Despite India’s status as an emerging market for renewable
energy, it is expected that even in 2050, coal will command
around a quarter of India’s electricity generation, while wind
and solar will account for two-thirds. As a technology and
innovation leader, your Company is well positioned to help
accelerate these fundamental changes with the purposedriven growth encompassed in our ‘2030 plan’*. Starting with
recognizing and reiterating Safety, Integrity, Quality as our
license to operate, the plan rests on three clear pillars:
•

Firstly, the focus will be on the Company’s core business
– strengthen our leadership position and continue
to deliver the record high order backlog in line with
customer and partner commitments, hence securing
and accelerating earnings and cash growth.

•

Secondly, your Company will focus on growing its
Digital and Service; expanding at the edge of the energy
system. The agenda is to tap into the largest installed
base in the country and leverage the market growth
momentum to accelerate continued profitable growth
and scaling of identified synergies. Your Company aims
to deliver greater value across the entire value chain of
our customers, from strategic planning to performance
partner through the lifecycle of plan-build-operate &
maintain.

•

Last but not least, your Company will continue to
drive innovation, synergies with customers and Hitachi
Group companies, and find new partnerships to
accelerate growth.

* https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/news/press-releases/2022/09/
hitachi-energy-is-ahead-of-schedule-with-its-purpose-drivengrowth-plan

94

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

While continuing to deliver to traditional customers i.e.
utilities, growth in orders and revenues will be attributable to
high growth segments outlined in our strategy - solar, wind,
HVDC, data centers and rail – along with using the levers of
service and exports.

of adversity – got itself listed in the first week of lockdown and
then proceeded to march towards its goal, whilst placing the
highest priority in the health and well being of its employees
and communities.

The renewable market, with present installed capacity of
solar at 60.8 GW and wind energy at 41GW, is poised for 5x
and 3x growth respectively. Your Company have offering for
the renewable market such as Electrical Balance of System
Optimization, Evacuation S/S, energy & grid management
automation, Dry Type Transformers and more. To efficiently
transfer clean energy across the vast geography of the country,
government is discussing projects to make the national grid
more flexible and secure. Over the next 8-10 years the Company
anticipates HVDC lines connecting utility scale solar generated
at Leh, Kargil, Bhadla, etc.

Health, safety and sustainability

The data center market in India is expected to add 45 data
centers spanning about 13 Million square feet and 1,015
MW of IT capacity over the next three years. The Company
provides S/S, GIS, Automation, Dry transformers solutions for
datacenters.
Indian Railways, world’s fourth-largest railway network, is
undergoing a massive upgradation and expansion led by
electrification of rail and adoption of energy efficient system.
They have already announced various sizeable tenders for high
density corridors or Mission Raftaar. Your Company has been
a long-term partner of Indian Railways and we see significant
opportunity here for our products and services.
Hitachi Energy India has a large installed base in the country.
And this gives us a good market for leveraging services portfolio
– across digitalized Classic Services​
, advanced Services​and
Servitized Solutions. Similarly for exports, with our manufacturing
muscle, a quarter of our orders this year are exports-led and we
will focus on building on this trend.
The Company believes that it is also growing electrification of
transportation, industry, and building sectors with our purposedriven growth plan.

Segment and product-wise
performance
Operational overview
The climate and energy crises demands urgent action. To
achieve a carbon neutral energy future, electricity will become
the backbone of the future energy system. And as society
decarbonizes and digitalizes, few companies have a more
compelling role to play in advancing a sustainable energy
future for all.
Hitachi Energy India started its standalone operations in 2019,
after the demerger. At this juncture your Company had set
itself a steep target of reaching ₹ 7,000 Crores in the next three
years. Your Company takes great pride in reporting that at the
close of FY 2022-23, total orders stood at ₹ 6,817 Crores. At
the time of formulating the goal, it was impossible to foresee a
once in a generation pandemic that would bring lives, supply
chains and the global economy to a screeching halt. Your
Company demonstrated leadership and resilience in the face

Through the long-tail of the pandemic the Company continued
to grow its operations, while holding steadfast to the crisis team
governance encompassing country and local levels which
ensured safety protocols were respected despite a record low
number of reported COVID-19 cases by the close of the year.
Vaccination drives for booster dose were conducted across
all locations for employees and their families. Employees were
encouraged to find a balance between in person customer
engagements and essential travel – this helped execute
swift track, trace & isolation of the sporadic cases that were
encountered during the second half of the year.
All employees testing COVID-19 positive were provided
aide and assistance in treatment and home isolation; in
case of aggravated cases they were admitted in hospitals
and their progress and health status was monitored by
Company doctors.
The new norm of remote working that helped circumvent
the pandemic brought with it its own set of challenges and
health implications. Regular webinars and virtual awareness
sessions were conducted for families by Company doctors
and external experts on wellbeing, desk yoga and ergonomics
sessions and resilience trainings were organized.
Your Company’s work is underpinned by Safety, Integrity and
Quality. And it continues to resonate with its customers through
our high service ethics. The Company continued organizing
regular training sessions for its employees, contract staffs, and
partners to reduce hazard and avert potential safety incidents.
Through the year, targeting all types of on rolls and contract
employees, your Company reiterated its licenses to operate.
Your Company has conducted special sessions to spread
awareness regarding Risk Management and Life Saving Rules,
summer readiness at sites, and so on, to ensure our people
and adapt to new norm measures and bring Safety & well-being
into routine practice. Road Safety programs were organized in
association with Hero MotoCorp - 23 Road Safety Program
Sessions with more than 3,000 participants across locations.
Agility and ownership at project sites was also recognized by
several customers.
Health Safety and Environment is a key enabler of
sustainable operations. Your Company’s commitment to
lowering the carbon footprint of our operations, product
localization, and digitalization of the grid are the key focus
areas defining success.
Last year, your Company announced its 2030 carbon neutral
goals. The Company has set milestone defining its journey for
operations in India. We modeled our strategies to implement
this both ground up and top down, to meet the urgency and
pace of change required to reach a carbon-neutral future.
In pursuit of our targets, we achieved 100 percent fossilfree electricity consumption in our factories and offices in
December 2021. And through the period under discussion

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

transformed how we source our green electricity – from a mix
that included renewable energy certificates to one that has
evolved to a mix that is led by state utilities and independent
clean power generators. In some locations, rooftop solar
generation has also gained steam along with off-grid solar
power for our project site offices, cutting down on polluting
diesel consumption.
Energy assessments were conducted across our manufacturing
locations and qualified volunteers are undergoing Bureau of
Energy Efficiency Certified Energy (BEE) Manager, who will
then lead their respective locations on an energy efficiency
transformation journey. With faith in the adage – what gets
measured, gets done – your Company has implemented Green
House Gas Standard and is in the process to adopting Smart
Metering across all locations. Steering Committees (STECOs)
with location ownership and management buy-ins helped
ensure cadence and continuity in our sustainability plans.
Environment-friendly Piped Natural Gas (PNG) replaced diesel
for certain energy-intensive processes in three transformer
factories. The Environmental, Society and Governance
Committee (ESG) of Board of Directors continued to provide
oversight and course correction to ensure the Company
meets its goals.

New technologies; New capabilities
Innovation-based R&D is key to your Company’s differentiation
in the market. The activities are carried out in the global R&D
and technology centers as well as R&D embedded in the local
businesses, leveraging local competence for creating social,
environmental, and economic value, globally.
Keeping pace with the rapidly evolving energy landscape,
your Company launched several fresh solutions that apply
the intelligence of digitalization to help customers to plan
ahead, make better informed decisions and create more value.
Foundational blocks such as bringing 5G connectivity to missioncritical industrial and utility operations will be made possible by
TRO600 series wireless routers with 5G capability, which are
purpose-built to help industrial and utility customers achieve high
reliability and resiliency in mission-critical operations.
Hitachi Energy India’s hybrid connectivity solutions can
provide a combination of interoperable technologies on a
single communication network, enabling applications for
edge devices, mobile devices, and field networks, spanning
environments from dense urban to ultra-rural. A hybrid system
can ensure seamless industrial communications even when
specific connectivity options may be unavailable or hampered.
Such networks will be critical in harnessing the power of
digital transformers, like the next-generation TXpert™
Hub launched in February 2023. This advanced digital
technology is the heart of the TXpertTM Ecosystem for
transformer’s digitalization and has been rebuilt from the
ground incorporating the latest advances in communications
technology and cybersecurity. It is conceived to connect all
the digital transformer sensors to aggregate and analyze
the data, providing digital connectivity and enabling local
and remote monitoring to reduce cost, optimize operation,
extend life expectancy, and enhance performance.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

95

While increased digitalization and automation will be central to
greater integration of renewable energy sources into the power
system, hardware too has to be reengineered for demanding
environs on tomorrow. Offshore wind has the potential to
generate more than 4,20,000 TWh per year worldwide.
This is more than 18 times global electricity demand today.
To harness such energy, your Company has launched its
OceaniQTM portfolio - a step-change in delivering the energy
needs of tomorrow through a ruggedized, proven technology
that addresses the unique challenges of the offshore energy
environment. Combining cross-industry competence from the
power and marine sectors, the portfolio addresses applications
for fixed platforms, floating structures and sub-sea power
systems for wind, marine and other offshore operators.
Digitalization and service are key enablers for sustainable
and profitable growth. Your Company strengthened its
portfolio with the launch of Lumada Inspection Insights that
uses via intuitive visuals of your assets and infrastructures’
health and risk profiles via AI-driven analyses of images
collected from satellites, still or video images to provide
insights for better asset management and service planning.
Your Company is making timely progress with its portfolio that
is strengthening, expanding, and evolving the power system.
The business is focusing on continued localization of its
global product portfolio, building indigenous capabilities and
products, as well as creating new jobs. The Company is also
continuously evaluating the energy and demand landscape and
the necessary steps we must take to keep ourselves relevant
to deliver cutting-edge solutions to our customers in India and
around the world.
In May 2022, your Company inaugurated the first manufacturing
facility in India producing Resin Impregnated Paper bushings
up to 400kV voltage level. Strengthening India’s power grid one of the largest operational synchronous grids in the world
- is vital for the country as it aims to integrate a greater share
of renewables in a step towards its carbon neutral ambitions.
Resin Impregnated Paper bushings offer an improvement
over traditional oil-based alternatives by preventing moisture
ingress, oil leakage and reducing risks of fire in case of failure.
This technology enables operators to make the grid safer
while reducing downtime and maintenance costs.
In August 2022, your Company’s greenfield manufacturing
facility for High Voltage Power Quality products was
inaugurated by the Sri Basavaraj Bommai, then Chief
Minister of Karnataka. This facility doubles the existing
production capacity of advanced capacitor units, banks
and other products. These products find application in
power utilities, industries, renewables and transportation
segments to improve efficiency and reduce energy waste. As
a part of Hitachi Energy’s global manufacturing network, this
facility will offer direct and indirect employment and nurture
an ecosystem of local suppliers across the manufacturing
value chain. It closely aligns with Prime Minister’s Mission
Innovation to accelerate public and private clean energy
innovation to address climate change, make clean energy
affordable to consumers, and create jobs and commercial
opportunities. Manufacturing of electrical equipment is
an energy intensive process keeping sustainability goals

96

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

in mind, we have adopted some innovative processes for
the factory that reduce electrical energy consumption per
process step by almost 40 percent.
Also in August 2022, your Company added capacity in terms
of a new factory for production of Operating Mechanism of
circuit breaker. As part of our operations in Maneja, Vadodara,
this production facility is dedicated for catering increasing
demand from global and local customers for operating
mechanism like FSA and BLG (industry standards of drives),
which have a wide range of applications in various circuit
brakers all over the world. Factory is equipped with state of art
assembly stations by using latest technology of equipment.
Lean principles in practice, like single prices flow, optimized
material flow, supermarket for sub-assemblies and finished
goods etc. It is also equipped with testing facility required for
routing testing of FSA, as a part of end of line control.
The exponential rise in capex focused initiatives around
integration and transmission of 500GW+ renewable energy to
bring clean energy to every household eventually reaching net
zero is an opportunity that your Company must harness to the
fullest. The comprehensive renewable integration plan focuses
on strengthening the country’s transmission system – including
an estimates of ₹ 2.4 Lakh Crores expansion of the Inter State
Transmission System (ISTS), with an additional ₹ 2.16 Lakh
Crores to develop 268 GW on-shore renewable energy capacity,
and ₹ 28,100 Crores for 10 GW offshore wind energy capacity.
In anticipation of such demand, Your Company during
FY 2022-23 launched the advanced power system factory in
Chennai. The new factory will manufacture advanced power
electronics for HVDC Light®, HVDC Classic, and STATCOM,
together with MACH™ control and protection system, the
brain behind our advanced transmission and power quality
solutions. This factory will serve both the fast growing Indian
market as well as the large global demand for clean energy
solutions to integrate renewables at scale and at speed that
it is needed. It is the latest HVDC factory built and the world’s
second testing lab of power quality control solutions. It will
cater to the rising number of high-voltage transmission projects
in India and export to support global HVDC installations.
Your Company is proud to be contributing to the country’s
growth story by bringing industry-leading experience,
deep domain knowledge and pioneering technologies
that support our stakeholders with accelerating the global
energy transition.

Discussion on financial
performance with respect
to operational performance
Performance during the reporting
period
Your Company’s success is a result of its focused strategy,
diversified portfolio, and its relentless pursuit of improving
the bottom-line. Through the year, the supply side constraints
evolved – while pressure from commodities and freight prices
eased in the second half, semi-conductor crunch persisted;
especially with the deferred opening of the Chinese market.
Energy transition, electrification of industries and rail, pick up
datacenter investments and continued focus on renewables
drove orders. The Company closed the year with the highestever order backlog annually at ₹ 7,070.9 Crores, which
provided healthy revenue visibility. Through the year, your
Company had some significant order wins including, but not
limited to:
Renewable evacuation & integration
•

10 Nos. 315MVA, 400kV class Transformers from NTPC
for Solar Power evacuation. Your Company would be
first in India to conduct short circuit test on this rating of
transformer & would contribute towards reliable green
energy evacuation

•

Renew: 400kV & 220kV AIS S/S order

•

Sembcorp: AIS S/S orders for Wind & Solar

Green Corridors & state networks
•

PGCIL: 500MVA 400kV transformers

•

PGCIL: 2x 500 MVA 400 kV Transformers

•

PGCIL: 4X110 MVAr,13X80 MVAr, 765kV Reactor

•

Adani Transmission: 19 X 500 MVA 765kV Transformers
& 3 X 110 MVAr 765kV Reactors

•

Adani Transmission: 13x500MVA 765 - 400kV Transformers

•	Adani Transmission: 20 x 110MVAr 765kV Shunt Reactor
Transport
•

12 Nos. 100MVA Scott connected transformers for
Western Railway through BNC Power & 15Nos V
Connected Transformers through Chetak ent. The
Company would be among the first suppliers to complete
all RDSO qualifications to supply these transformers
in Indian Railways, strengthening electrification and
readying for higher load

•

190 Nos. Loco Transformers from Indian Railway entities,
contributing towards increased mobility on electricity

•

Dry Transformers for Agra Metro, Pune Metro, Bhopal
Metro, Indore Metro and Chennai Metro from various
OEM/EPC maintaining our leading market position in
Metro segment

Hitachi announced acquisition of
remaining shares from ABB
Global parent Company Hitachi Ltd. announced acquisition
of remaining shares from ABB by close of December 2022 well ahead of schedule, further supporting Hitachi Energy’s
2030 Plan. This acquisition will provide opportunities for
accelerating the synergies between businesses and functions
e.g. R&D, IT transition , common shared services. It has helped
us move forward and continue with trusted partnerships and
collaboration with customers, partners which is essential to
finding the solutions our world needs.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

Datacenters
•

CTRLS: 220/33kV GIS at Chennai

•

Multiple orders for Dry Type Transformers for leading
Datacenters

•

Yondr Datacenter: CRP-SAS and FOTE

Industries
•

Aditya Aluminium - 400 kV AIS Bay Extension at Lapanga

•

Aditya Aluminum: 400/220kV AIS S/S

•

Reliance Jamnagar: 174 MVA 220 / 33kV and 500 MVA
400/22kV digital transformers

•	SMIORE: 220/11kV GIS SS-MRSS & LILO
HVDC
•

Adani: 1000MW Mumbai Infeed HVDC

Your Company booked a major order from Adani Electricity
Mumbai Infra Limited to provide a High Voltage Direct
Current (HVDC) transmission system which will link Kudus to
Mumbai. Mumbai is experiencing a rapid increase in electricity
consumption, seeing peak demand increasing to 3,850
megawatts (MW) in 2022, of which around 2,100 MW was
supplied from outside sources. The game-changing 1,000
MW HVDC link will increase the supply of power to the city by
almost 50 percent, paving the way for utilities in the country
to adapt to the grid of the future. It will be a key enabler in
Mumbai’s Climate Action Plan, aiming to become the first city
to become carbon neutral in South Asia. Your Company has
an impressive HVDC track record in India, where it introduced
the technology over 30 years ago with the Vindhyachal project
in 1989. Raigarh-Pugalur is Hitachi Energy’s sixth HVDC
project in India and the second UHVDC installation, following
the multi-terminal North-East Agra link.
Your Company’s expertise is also being leveraged by several
state and national utilities in setting up studies and simulations
of greater renewable integration. Your Company’s technologists
in the Power Consulting Services Businesses collaborate closely
with generators to regulators in determining the most effective
standards and technologies for a cleaner energy network.
Your Company also booked orders to supply power
transformers for part of India’s largest solar park, NTPC’s
upcoming 4.75 GW renewable energy park in Gujarat.
Spread over 72,600 hectares in Kutch. As part of this project,
Hitachi Energy India will provide ten 315 MVA 400/33/33 kV
transformers manufactured at the Transformers factory in
Vadodara. This will be the largest rating of transformer, used
by solar power evacuation so far. The made-in-India power
transformers are critical components in power systems. They
pool the generated power from the renewable source and
step it up at the pooling station to synchronize and feed into
inter-state/intra-state transmission system. Their availability
and longevity have a major impact on grid reliability and
better voltage control even with intermittent supply while the
Company’s eco-design transformers enable sustainability
requirements.
From utilities and industries to transportation and infra,
customers are understanding the urgency of the pace of
change needed to reach Net Zero.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

97

The increase in speed and frequency of trains to support the
fast urbanization and the growing demand for mobility in the
region requires an efficient and reliable rail transportation
system. India launched commercial operations of the Vande
Bharat Express – the world’s first semi-high-speed passenger
train on high-rise overhead electric big case for Over Head
Electric (OHE) territory. It is India’s first indigenously designed
and manufactured semi-high speed and self-propelled train
set that your Company has locally designed, developed
and engineered. The unique Scott Transformers, addresses
different challenges while meeting the project schedule with
the highest quality standards and robustness while minimizing
the throughput time.
Post COVID-19 capex spends of industries is witnessing an
increasing share of investment in digitalization of their asset
base. Your Company has expanded its installed base of its
TXpert™ Ecosystem in India’s largest steel manufacturer’s
operations. Being open, scalable, secure, and vendoragnostic, TXpert™ brings the knowledge and intelligence
of a thousand transformers – delivering actionable datadriven insights from field to the boardroom, with real impact
on reducing costs, optimizing operations, extending life
expectancy, and enhancing environmental performance.
In another example of field to boardroom, Hitachi Energy
India collaborated with India’s largest private transmission
Company to develop their Energy Network Operations
Center (ENOC), which serves as the operations and control
center for all their transmission and distribution substations.
The Company has deployed 18,000 circuit kilometers of
transmission lines with 3 Million power connections at 99.87
percent network availability. The center uses a cloud-based
platform and adopts machine learning and data analyticsdriven decision-making. It will leverage your Company’s
state-of-the-art MicroSCADA X automation platform to offer
24x7 real-time monitoring, control, and protection of missioncritical power assets to maximize grid efficiency and prevent
costly disruptions and outages. Hitachi Energy’s solution
enables minimal manual intervention, reduces maintenance
costs, and supports increasingly complex operations. Its realtime intervention input to site O&M teams for corrections will
help the customer meet the need for affordable, reliable, and
sustainable energy. In the long run, our system will help ENOC
manage the planned transition of its asset portfolio to a lowcarbon future in a safe, organized, and sustainable manner.
Your Company’s booked orders for the financial period under
review – April 2022 to March 2023 – totaled ₹ 6,817.2 Crores,
and revenue was ₹ 4,483.7 Crores. Profit-before-tax after
exceptional items was ₹ 130.8 Crores and profit-after- tax
₹ 93.9 Crores.

Service
Your Company recognizes that the energy transition begins
with existing infrastructure and installed base and no two
customers are at the same position in their journey to net
zero. Leveraging our century of experience and expertise,
our dedicated teams deliver exceptional service solutions
that cover the entire lifecycle of your assets, ensuring resilient
operations. The Company works collaboratively with its

98

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

| H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

customers to ensure their energy assets perform as expected
and meet their business needs.
Through the period under review, the service portfolio continued
to deliver with 10 percent growth year-on-year, covering a
mix of retrofits, spares and digitalization. From providing first
factory repairs of traction transformers to making successful
Generator Circuit Breaker HEC7 overhauling, replacing third
party SCADA and controls to rendering life cycle services
orders for grid automation from heavy industry and utility
customers – we have effectively provided comprehensive
services in various segments. The Company also booked
some breakthrough orders for GIS bay extension and
Substation Automation Systems (SAS). As a partner across
customers’ plan-build-operate lifecycle, Hitachi Energy in
India continued to provide technical expertise services such
as renewable studies for utilities and engineering advisory for
mining behemoths.

Further renewable power generators and datacenter clients
leveraged digital lifecycle partnerships under our RelCare
solutions. RelCare is an open and transparent digital
partnership agreement that combines asset management
software with the expertise of Hitachi Energy. It enables asset
and O&M managers to reliably and cost-effectively optimize
system performance and protect crucial power assets.
Your Company shares the responsibility with its customers
through joint access to a user-friendly digital platform that
can remotely monitor the maintenance of their assets.
Hitachi Energy India believes in working collaboratively with
its customers to achieve shared goals. The Company partners
with its customers to find solutions that meet their unique
needs and share our expertise and knowledge to help deliver
a sustainable energy future.

Exports

The Rihand-Dadri HVDC system evacuating power out of
the 3000MW generated at the Rihand generating station is
an essential link in the northern region. Your Company has
maintained the project with technical support for 30 years
to keep this critical HVDC link robust. In the digital era, the
Company has made it possible to operate the HVDC stations
remotely for the first time in India. In the period under review,
your Company established remote operation of the +/- 500 kV
1500 MW HVDC Rihand Dadri Bi-Pole Terminals from National
Transmission Asset Management Center, Manesar. By allowing
the control of HVDC stations from a central location, operators
no longer need to be physically present in the station control
room, thereby enhancing efficiency and reducing costs. This
innovation presents a promising future for the industry as it
opens possibilities for monitoring, controlling, and operating
all HVDC stations from a single location. The project includes
the supply of engineered solutions and on-site services to
achieve remote operation functionality. The recently upgraded
Control & Protection system at Rihand Dadri HVDC link
features the latest version of Hitachi Energy’s most advanced
digital MACH™ control and protection system. The MACH™
system monitors, controls, and protects the sophisticated
hardware in the station, ensuring the highest possible reliability
and efficiency. It incorporates advanced fault registration
and remote-control functions and has been designed to run
around the clock for decades.

Your Company had set its sights on a mid-term target for exports,
contributing 20-25 percent of orders and revenue and has
consistently breached this corridor through the period in review.

Your Company also added new customer names to its portfolio
with service orders from PSTCL, Vardhman, ST Telemedia.
Leveraging synergies with the Hitachi Group, your Company
booked its first order for Modular Switchgear Monitoring
from Hitachi Japan and for servicing the group Company’s
GIS switchgear as well. Heavy industry customers from auto,
steel, cement and ceramics, entrusted your Company with
lifecycle service management of their assets. Other steel,
O&G and power majors were first movers this year in adopting
our RelScan solution. This digital solution uses a reliability
algorithm based on the Failure Modes & Effects Analysis
(FMEA) method to assign a level of importance to each asset
in the system. Expert assessment and advanced algorithms
are the foundation of informed decision-making.

Understanding the shifting market dynamics and the reshaping
supply chains, your Company has been proactively augmenting
its manufacturing muscle to meet potential new demand. Today,
80 percent of Hitachi Energy’s portfolio is locally manufactured
in India and the manufacturing base in India also caters to the
global requirements of five products supply from your comapny
global feeder factories have been gaining ground around the
world, helping us gradually expand our export markets. Doubling
the capacity of Power Quality manufacturing with the greenfield
establishment in Doddaballapur, and the new HVDC factory in
Chennai are geared towards such requirement.

Orders flowed in from established export markets of Nepal,
Bhutan, Middle East, Africa and the Americas. On-going
global supply chain constraints and the geo-political issues
are compelling global customers to look at alternative supply
chain routes and partners. India has the potential to make its
mark as a resilient partner offering high-quality products.
Specifically the Company secured its first direct supply order
from Bhutan Power Corporation for circuit breakers of multiple
ratings. As the nation readies to be a regional forerunner in
hydropower and strengthen its own power network, your
Company built on its installed base with several orders for
capacitor banks, Bay Equipment, GIS switchgear and other
substation components, from utilities and EPCs.
Across energy intensive heavy industries in the African
continent - from copper mines in Congo and oil and gas
refiners in Uganda – orders for core technologies such as 245
kV AIS products and power transformers continued to flow
in. Your Company is also delivering technologies for power
utilities in the region, including in Tanzania and Malawai, and
across the European continent and western Asia, including
Switzerland, Sweden, Denmark and Iraq, to support reliable,
quality power in the farthest corners.

Also, earlier in the year, the high-voltage feeder factory in
Savli commenced production of Dead Tank Breaker poles
for US markets, with the introduction of 550 kV poles to

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

the unit’s current product portfolio. The new production
facility is a dedicated lean production line, which can adjust
its manufacturing requirements quickly when needed. It is
equipped with a testing facility qualified for ASME standards
to validate the design and construction of tank for pressure
withstand ability. Despite the ongoing logistics challenges
worldwide, the team completed construction, assembly-line
setup, and installation of critical equipment, including the
ASME test machine, EOT Crane installation, and production
layout readiness within the targeted timeline.

Operational excellence
Your Company’s strategic and structured investments in
product lines and capabilities helped navigate it through the
challenges of the pandemic. However, the twin challenges
of COVID-19 and the conflict in Ukraine severely disrupted
supply chains and negatively impacted commodity and freight
prices for most of the period under review.
With this as the backdrop, your Company accelerated
capex and strengthened talent to benefit from the shifting
trade routes. However, the semi-conductor crunch and
consequent adverse impact down the value chain was
hard to shake off in the short term. Multiple factors were
at play – starting off with a spiraling growth in the demand
for semiconductors with the increasing digitalization and
consumption of electronics and automotives. This, coupled
with lagging impact of Covid disruptions and geo-political
tensions have reduced semi-conductor supply to a trickle.
Leveraging deeply embedded expertise and agility, your
Company attacked the problem by reassessing certain
strategies that will help it steer through the turbulent times
in the medium term, including - reducing dependency on
the chips by redesigning products and increasing focus on
product lines that do not depend heavily on semi-conductors,
such as COMBILFEX, RTU, enterprise software and network
control. Secondly, leveraging our global heft on stock-sharing
and material allocation. The Company is proactively stocking
some of the fast-moving electronic items to provide temporary
hedging from the sky-rocketing product prices. While the
global semiconductor manufacturers and the global supply
chain organizations are continuously working towards striking
the balance of demand and supply, it will take some time to
reach ideal scenarios.
Continuing to strive for best-in-class operations your
Company achieved IEC 62443 cybersecurity certification
covering practices such as security management.
In other fronts, your Company’s operational excellence was
recognized by multiple stakeholders – from group Company
to national industry bodies. The SCM Cost Engineering from
High Voltage Products won the President Value Engineering
Award 2022 for Cost Engineering, and Cross-Functional Team.
As part of localization and cost optimization, the team formed
a cross-functional team with finance function and engineering
center to work on design optimization and develop local
suppliers to reduce cost and lead time for dead tank breakers.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D |

99

Since November 21, 2021 ever since becoming Hitachi
Energy we have unwavering commitment to quality,
customer-centricity and innovation which has helped us
build relationships with our customers and stakeholders.
The Company’s focus on transparency and accountability
has further cemented our reputation as a reliable partner and
helped us earn the recognition of Most Trusted Brands of
India by Marksmen group and the Golden Peacock Award for
Corporate Governance.

Safety, Integrity & Quality
Safety, Integrity and Quality form the tenets of the Company’s
license to operate. A strong and constant focus is ensured
throughout your Company’s operations to drive the culture
around these three tenets, for employees to internalize and
feel empowered to champion them in any situation.
Safety is a vital element in our ‘license to operate’ and, as set
out in your Company’s Sustainability 2030* commitments, the
aim is zero harm. Safety rules and procedures create ‘barriers’
that prevent potential incidents from happening. When fully
applied they should prevent incidents. Sometimes there are gaps
because one or more of our safety rules and procedures are not
properly applied. That means the protection is not as solid as
it could or should be and the consequences can be devasting.
A key role of the life-saving rules is to help keep our safety
‘barriers’ solid and everyone safe from harm. The Life
Saving Rules (LSRs) apply to all employees and contractors
regardless of work location or their role. LSR – eLearning is
now mandatory for Hitachi Energy employees; helping them
review their knowledge of safety practices, understand the
decisions many colleagues need to make in safety-critical
situations, and check what might happen if no timely and
correct action is taken.
Hitachi Energy India activities lie in the electrical developmental
ecosystem. You Company protects its employees from the risks
derived from the manufacture, assembly, and maintenance of
facilities or equipment where there is a likelihood of exposure
to electrical risk. On job sites, working around electricity can be
very safe when workers properly identify and control hazards.
Inadequate training, lack of experience, and failure to recognize
potential hazards could result in electric shock or death. This
year nine electrical safety awareness (PICW) programs were
organized for employees and contractors who perform an
electrical work. Each program was for two days where total 230
employees were trained, assessed and certified.
Your Company passionately believes that to advance a
sustainable energy future, it must put people at the heart
of what it does. The Company wants to ensure that health,
safety, and personal resilience of employees are developed
and safeguarded. To ensure that our employees are equally
safe outside on the road, Hitachi Energy organizes programs
on safe driving at our workplaces in collaboration with Hero
Motorcorp Limited.
Quality Circle Forum of India honored a team from Savli,
Vadodara with the silver award at their annual Safety
* Refer page no 32 (BRSR report)

100 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Convention, where the shared projects on Electrical Safety,
aligning with QCFI’s theme, “Life & Limbs are precious.” This
recognition highlights the team’s commitment to maintaining
a safe working environment and reinforces the Company’s
dedication to promoting safety initiatives.
Hitachi Energy India, during FY 2022-23 adapted the
newly launched updated Hitachi Group Code of Ethics and
Business Conduct. Your Company’s integrity team actively
contributed and provided input with our learnings to this
single, universal Hitachi Group Code of Ethics and Business
Conduct. The Code outlines the rules and principles designed
to assist leaders and employees in making decisions and
taking actions consistent with the Hitachi Group Identity and
Values. Your Company is strongly invested in the process
and holds sacred that it is not about box ticking, but about
living with an integrity mindset. The ambition is for everyone
in the organization to feel comfortable, empowered and free
to speak up should they encounter an integrity issue, and the
Code provides details on the speak-up channels available.
All the concerns reported are subjected to appropriate
investigation, follow up, and brought to full closure, adhering
to the zero-tolerance policy for any violations. The outcome
of all the concerns are reported to the Audit Committee.
Your Company’s commitment to quality is integral to its core
values as a responsible organization. The Company aims
to exceed the expectations of our customers, employees,
partners, suppliers, and shareholders and strive to deliver
timely and quality products, systems, and services that meet or
exceed customer expectations. To achieve this, the Company
understand its customer needs, measure their perceptions, and
continuously improve sour operations to enhance customer
satisfaction. The Company believes in developing the skills and
motivation of its people to add value to our customers through
continuous training and development.

Initiatives & Collaboration
Through the year under review, your Company has been taking
measures to maximize the value from its existing installed
base, co-create value for customers and develop talent that
will continue to bring social, economic and environmental
value for the next generation.
Digital upgrades across installed base continued, while
Hitachi Energy’s own factories expanded the digital passport
system to strengthen quality and operational transparency.
Continuous process improvement approach helped identify
areas of efficiency in operations, and accrue cost savings
across its manufacturing locations, with employees across the
value chain showing ownership and expertise. Your Company
also continued efforts towards its carbon neutral agenda. By
achieving 100 percent fossil-free electricity in operations,
the Company reduced its CO2 equivalent emissions by more
than 45 percent since the start of the journey. In the period
under discussion, the Company introduced rooftop solar for
the electrification of four project site offices, added 938kW of
permanent solar panel installations at its largest manufacturing
location and is adopting Green House Gas Standard and
Smart Metering across all locations.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Your Company believes that green infrastructure plays a
key role in the development to support the growing urban
population. To this end, we conducted renewable impact
studies for over a dozen industry players, along with national
load dispatch centers, for regulating usage patterns across
different geographies. Such initiatives provide further
encouragement for industries to use green energy for their
power generation needs.
In addition, the cross fertilization of ideas and opportunities
with Hitachi Group companies continued through the year,
with a focus in areas of digitalization, smart cities, metro rail
systems and railways.
Hitachi Energy India collaborates with customers, partners
and policymakers to enable a sustainable energy future and
has been progressing towards the commitment. As the pace
of industry and government events picked up, your Company
returned to traditional rendezvous such as Innorail, Elecrama,
India Smart Utilities Week and were active contributors to policy
discussions at forums such as Indian Electrical & Electronics
Manufacturers’ Association (IEEMA), Confederation of Indian
Industry (CII), Central Board of Irrigation and Power (CBIP),
International Council on Large Electric Systems (CIGRE),
Invest Karnataka and India-Sweden Green Transition
Partnership for creating a safer, greener and inclusive future.
The Company also re-initiated its flagship Energy and Digital
World on-ground, with technology conferences at Lucknow,
Bhubaneshwar, Chennai, etc.
As part of strategic CSR initiatives, your Company built on
the existing partnership with NIT-Warangal, inaugurating
the smart electric grid lab for the students. Also it, provided
electric vehicle infrastructure at NIT-Warangal and IIT-Roorkee,
where the Hitachi Energy India sponsored Central Monitoring
and Analytics Center that will launched soon for students to
understand, explore and improve the smart city pilot running
at the institute.

Research and Development (R&D)
Your business has consistently innovated and displayed
a pioneering attitude throughout its existence. Since the
Company’s inception, this desire for innovation has been
ingrained in its DNA. It has continually been acknowledged
as a leader in the field of technological development. Your
business has maintained its leadership position in the sector
by delivering customer value using a solution-oriented
strategy. The ability of your Company’s brilliant professionals
to consistently come up with innovative methods to meet
consumer demands have been made possible by this
philosophy of anticipating future customer wants, which has
been fostered throughout the years. This has in turn assisted
in addressing critical concerns.
As a testament to your Company’s commitment to innovation,
it has received numerous R&D and innovation awards, including
the prestigious India Smart Grids Forum 2023 awards. Your
Company’s ability to consistently innovate and push the
boundaries of what is possible has enabled it to remain a leader
in the industry.
Your Company’s R&D activities are conducted globally in R&D
and technology centers and are locally embedded in businesses.
This approach leverages local competence to create social,
environmental, and economic value on a global scale. By

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

developing new products, features, localized products, and
solutions, your Company is able to secure existing revenue
streams while also creating additional revenue by increasing
customer engagement and installed bases.
In conclusion, your Company’s innovative spirit and
dedication have been crucial to its success throughout the
years. Your Company has continually provided consumer
value and remained at the forefront of the market by taking
a solution-oriented strategy and anticipating future customer
demands. Your Company capacity for innovation and
investment in the creation of modern technologies have
allowed it to maintain its position as a leader in the sector.
It will do so in the years to come. To keep the world running
smoothly and sustainably, we remain committed to identifying
and developing the essential power grid technologies that
will enable a future that is more dependent on renewable
energy sources.

Talent
The Company’s investment in training and upskilling
employees continues to sets it apart in the market. Your
Company’s success rests on attracting, developing and
retaining the right talent, who is highly engaged. Your
Company’s constant focus is also to ensure a working
environment
of
inclusive
leadership,
transparency
and belonging.
Coping with the demands of the new ways of working,
building resilience and helping customers & employees cope
with the COVID-19 outbreak required an intense focus on
new skills and a vigilant watch on people and their welfare.
While the Company’s learning and development (L&D)
function continued to focus on leadership and professional
development programs, self-paced learning was incorporated
to encourage life-long learning.
While Leadership Development and most other L&D
initiatives are in-house, the L&D team also works closely
with external training partners to meet certain demands
which require customization. This year, there was
increased focus on developing cross-cultural awareness
and preparing managers to deal with a workforce which is
increasingly diverse and technology friendly. To navigate
the environment, various programs not limited to change
management, resilience and others were introduced to
help employees redefine business problems in a way
that makes new, innovative responses possible. The
Company’s L&D team also saw the transformation of the
global training programs such as PG4U, Middle Managers
Program, Leadership Essentials Program and Female
Talent development Program. L&D Partners are aligned to
enable effective partnering with the business and provide
customized learning solutions.
In addition, efforts were made to provide an inclusive
environment that promotes diversity in gender, age and culture,
including opportunities for global mobility. The Company’s
competency has been aligned with the business strategy. The
Company recognized exceptional performance and behavior
in line with organizational values through its rewards and
recognition program. There was continuous focus on improving

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 101

the diversity in the workforce throughout the year. A diversity
outreach program was also launched to encourage rehiring of
performers who may have left their career for several reasons.
The entire approach to well-being was based on increasing
diversity, promoting inclusion and recognizing performance.
Such initiatives have proved instrumental in penetrating
and expanding the market presence and in introducing
key technologies. As our Company continues to grow,
its focus to invest in talent in the segments that are vital
for its business growth also sharpens. Continuing to the
cause of advancing education in the areas of Smart Grid,
our Company entered into an MOU with National Institute
of Technology, Warangal (NITW) to set up a laboratory for
Smart Electric Grid in the institute.

Corporate Social Responsibility
Your Company took the opportunity of its new standalone
identity to leverage a cogent and comprehensive CSR program
that amplified the values of the Company. The Company is
advancing the world’s energy system to be more sustainable,
flexible and secure. As the pioneering technology leader,
your Company collaborates with customers and partners to
enable a sustainable energy future – for today’s generations
and those to come.
Your Company is committed to sustainable and inclusive
development of the community’s social capital through
active engagement. Social surveys are organized through
NGO partners to receive the grievances of community, if any.
CSR projects are identified and implemented in the following
focus areas:
•

Promote gender equality and empowering of women in
engineering workforce

•

Endorse education, employability & healthcare

•

Social impact projects to collaborate with communities
to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve
access to electricity in the country, especially in rural
areas for its development.

•

Aid in sustainable development goals

Some highlights from the year under review
Empowering diversity: Your Company began by supporting
80 girl students pursuing engineering studies by providing
laptops, soft skill training and scholarship through their
academics. All the students have successfully completed
their fourth semester with good academic performance.
The project is now being replicated by supporting another
batch of 120 girl students pursuing engineering studies by
providing laptops, soft skill training and scholarship through
their academics.
Nutrition, primary healthcare, and education: Your
Company provided 500 food kits to underprivileged
government school children. It also contributed to developing
and deploying additional medical facilities at Government
hospitals at Bengaluru, Mysore, Vadodara, Savli and Halol.
This included providing medical equipment, ~100 ICU beds,
more than 400 monitoring - diagnostic equipment and two
ambulances. At Mysore it contributed towards development

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

102 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

of 10 new pediatric beds ICU ward with fully equipped
medical facilities at District Government Hospital. Further the
Company has undertaken to provide training to healthcare
staff and maintain the medical equipment for a period of
three years.
Access to water, urban afforestation: Urban afforestation
drives were conducted at Maneja, Vadodara, where your
Company is developing green cover in dry area of 10,000
sq ft by planting 3,000 saplings using Miyawaki technique
and will continue to maintain it for three years. Children from
local government schools were involved in sapling planting
as part of a larger drive towards a climate conscious
mindset, before handing the land over to Vadodara
Municipal Corporation. Your Company is also working with
Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRCL) for development
and maintenance of green cover along metro line medians
at Whitefield Road, Bengaluru.

Material developments
in Human Resources /
Industrial Relations front
Human resources
Your Company strongly believes that its employees are the
key pillar of our success in the market. Hitachi Energy India
continues to attract the best of talent, thanks to its diverse
yet inclusive culture and ability to provide opportunities for
their career growth. The Company’s people strategy is aligned
with its overall vision to be the pioneer in shaping the future
of sustainable energy and we are committed to nurturing a
cordial and diversified work environment in a growing market
and in maximizing the potential of its workforce.
As of March 31, 2023, the employee base stood at 2,323.
To ensure that your Company continues to attract top talent,
it launched innovative employer branding initiatives and
consistently created avenues for learning, thereby embracing
the culture of life-long learning. Hitachi Energy India is invested
in the development of employees and devoted to helping them
adapt and perform better in this VUCA (volatile, uncertain,
complex, and ambiguous) market environment. With an
enhanced performance management and talent strategy, the
Company is focused on attracting, assessing and developing
human capital for today and for the future. Your Company
pays immense attention to inculcating a learning environment
within teams and providing opportunities for global mobility, to
manage talent in key function areas.
Hitachi Energy India’s competency model has been
aligned with the business strategy. The same language is
spoken throughout employee’s performance, learning and
development cycles. To ensure continuous engagement of
employees, we have launched several retention strategies
including rewards and recognition programs to create a
nurturing and performance-oriented workplace and shape
employee behaviors in line with organizational values.

Our organization believes in creating a diverse & inclusive
work culture that cares for employees’ well-being. Health
and safety are our number-one priority and throughout
the period under review, the Company has striven to
ensure a safe working environment in all our premises,
undertaking several wellness initiatives. The Company also
paid attention to the governance of various processes and
initiatives across the organization and ensured industrial
relations remained cordial and harmonious across all
manufacturing locations.

People well-being
The Company continues to attract top talent due to its inclusive
culture and the immense opportunities available for nurturing
their talent. The people strategy is aligned with the Company’s
overall ambition to be a pioneering technology leader. This
requires a stable work environment in a growing market by
maximizing the potential of the Company’s workforce. To
ensure that the Company continues to attract top talent,
multiple employer branding initiatives were launched not
limiting to career fairs, recruitment drives, university connect
programs and internship opportunities. During the year, the
Company has consistently set a clear path to learn and adapt
to perform better in the changing market situation with its
enhanced performance management and talent strategy,
focusing on building a healthy pipeline by attracting, assessing
and developing talent.
In addition, persistent attention to provide an inclusive
environment to promote diversity in gender, age and culture,
including opportunities for global mobility, also form a part
of the proactive plan to manage talent in key function areas.
The Company’s competency has been aligned with the
business strategy. The Company recognized exceptional
performance and behavior in line with organizational values
through its rewards and recognition program. There was
continuous focus on improving the diversity in the workforce
throughout the year. A diversity outreach program was also
launched to encourage rehiring of performers who may have
left their career for several reasons. The entire approach to
wellbeing was based on increasing diversity, promoting
inclusion and recognizing performance. Multiple awareness
sessions on health and wellbeing were organized in different
office locations and factories to create awareness. Annual
medical check-ups and camps were set up through the year
to promote physical wellbeing.

Learning and development
Never have we been so severely tested before on the
resilience front than recently when we were ourselves
coping and helping our customers and employees cope
with the COVID-19 outbreak. While the Company’s learning
and development (L&D) function continued our focus on
leadership and professional development programs, we
also shifted gears in incorporating self-paced learning and
steered away from the status quo through various programs
not limited to change management, resilience & others to
help employees redefine business problems in a way that
makes new, innovative responses possible.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

The Company’s L&D team also saw the transformation of the
Global Training Programs such as PG4U, Middle Managers
Program, Leadership Essentials Program and Female Talent
development Program. L&D Partners are aligned to enable
effective partnering with the business and provide customized
learning solutions. While Leadership Development and
most other L&D initiatives are in-house, the L&D team also
works closely with external training partners to meet certain
demands which require customization. This year, there was
increased focus on developing cross-cultural awareness
and preparing managers to deal with a workforce which
is increasingly diverse and technology friendly. At Hitachi
Energy India Ltd, a self-paced lifelong learning integrated
effectively into our workday, is our instrument of choice to
empower our employees.
Your Company believes in empowering employees through
lifelong learning. The Company’s workforce leverages
Percipio – the digital learning platform houses 500,000+
multi-modal courses, videos, books and micro-learning
modules averaging 148 minutes of learning per person
per day. Through Percipio, our employees have access to
a library of over various learning assets including 15,000+
books and 1,200+ audio books created and curated by
subject matter experts. The employees’ learning journeys
are tailored to suit individual personas.
In addition to Percipio, employees also have access to other
learning platforms like Hitachi Energy India Limited‘s internal
LMS, EF (for mastering English language), Rosetta Stone
(for gaining other language skills) and Culture Wizard (to get
acclimatized with various cultures across the world). The
Company webinars loaded with adaptive course curriculum,
challenge our employees to expand the scope of their
capabilities on their own terms. These are in addition to the
technical and functional learning opportunities provided to
our employees to upskill themselves. To top it all, we have
introduced mentoring programs and coaching sessions to
support employees amass better knowledge retention and
even propose adjacent development opportunities.

Diversity and inclusion
As a young organization, Hitachi Energy India Limited
optimizes our global vision of Diversity 360 - A new mindset,
stronger culture, and new way of working. The Company’s
vision is to position Diversity & Inclusion at the core of
our long-term business success. Your Company believes
Diversity + Collaboration = Innovation. With Diversity 360
in place, the organization continues its promise to deliver
brilliant employee experiences as a new Company, where
our extraordinary talents are given the right environment
and are empowered to thrive. Diversity 360 works across
four workstreams
•

A new leadership model which focuses on D&I
strategy being embedded into our everyday behaviors,
policies, and leadership decisions. Your Company
is focused on developing a new leadership model
through a people partnership approach engaging
employees to define future leader needs and

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 103

expectations, utilized appreciative inquiry methodology
for collecting information, validated and co-created a
unique leadership model with International Institute for
Management Development (IMD).
•

Female Acceleration with a commitment to increase
gender diversity to 10 percent and progress female
representation in middle management and top leadership
roles. This year, the organization focused to strengthen
early talent pipeline through university hiring programs
and strengthen our female talent attraction strategy
to improve diverse experienced professionals’ hires.
Key talent identification and dedicated development
programs to ensure female talent enablement &
exposure (Female Talent Development Program) also
has been on top of the list.

•

Live Diversity & Inclusion to create the cultural basis
for collaboration and inclusiveness. To foster the D&I
culture in the Comapny, Hitachi Energy India focused on
incorporating D&I as each business unit’s accountability
through SPECTRUM – India’s diversity & inclusion
forum. SPECTRUM provides a platform for employees’
networking and engagement and also works with
diversity councils to execute D&I initiatives across
business units and also measure the effectiveness of all
such initiatives. Different awareness programs including
Unconscious bias programs which helps the people
managers deep dive into understanding unconscious
bias and actions and behaviors that interrupt or mitigate
biases were imparted.

•

Attract and grow talent to spotlight the Company
values = purpose and social innovation. Attract and
retain current and future talent. Hitachi Energy India
is focused on amending talent attraction policies like
Employee Referral Program with improved incentive
schemes, Early talent attraction policy for university
hires with retention schemes etc to accelerate
diversity hiring in India. The Company has created an
Employee Value Proposition built on the foundation
of our greater purpose, the scale and impact of our
work, and how we develop and power careers. Your
Company continues to create opportunities to grow
and develop internal talent– solving the challenges of
today and the demands of the future. The organization
through various efforts and initiatives sustained and
reached diversity to 7 percent in FY 2022-23.

Finance
With sharp focus on high growth segments, building regional
capabilities and close customer connect, your Company
continued its credible performance in April 2022-March
2023. Your Company generated total income of ₹ 4,4837
Crores against ₹ 4,950.9 Crores in January 2021- March
2022, 15 month period, clocking steady growth despite
challenges of price increases and trade bottlenecks. Your
Company’s net profit stood at ₹ 93.9 Crores against ₹ 203.4
Crores in January 2021- March 2022, 15 month period,
as margins were compressed with pressures of chips and

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

104 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

electronics crunch, commodity price fluctuations and
volatility in foreign exchange.
Your Company’s current ratio was at 1.2 and interest
coverage ratio at 4.4, showing strength in its balance sheet
and its ability to maximize capital. Your Company’s debtor
turnover ratio was 3.0, indicating its robust collection
processes. However, your Company is also discussing
potential repayment mechanisms to clear historical overdue.
Inventory turnover stood at 3.8. Your Company’s operating
EBITA was 3.9 percent, while the net profit margin was at
2.1 percent.
In FY 2022-23, the interest cost borne by your Company was
₹ 40.1 Crores. As on March 31, 2023, your Company had a net
debt of ₹ 111.8 Crores. In terms of foreign currency exposure
– for imports and exports – your Company continued to
conservatively hedge at the point of commitment to protect
the contract margins.
Details of significant changes (i.e. change of 25 percent or
more as compared to the immediately previous financial year)
in key financial ratios, along with detailed explanations thereof:
Key financial ratios
Ratios

FY 2022-23
FP 2021-22
April 1, 2022 to Jan 1, 2021 to
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022

Debtors Turnover

3.0

3.2

Inventory Turnover

3.8

5.1

Interest Coverage Ratio

4.4

7.2

Current Ratio

1.2

1.1

Debt Equity Ratio*

0.2

0.1

Operating Profit Margin
(%)

5.6

7.6

Net Profit Margin (%)

2.1

4.1

Return on net-worth is 8.0 percent in FY 2022-23 vs 19.7
percent in FY 2021-22. The current period returns are for the
period of 12 months (April 2022 to March 2023) whereas the
comparatives are for the period of 15 months (Jan 2021 to
Mar 2022) and accordingly not comparable. However, current
year margins were compressed with pressures of chips and
electronics crunch, commodity price fluctuations and volatility
in foreign exchange.
Disclosure of accounting treatment: Your Company followed
IND_ AS and has detailed its accounting policy in Note 2 of the
financial statements.
*Debt Equity Ratio = Short term borrowing / total equity

Risk and concerns
The threat of risk never goes away in the corporate world.
However, successful businesses, like Hitachi Energy
India, manage risk via strong governance frameworks and
risk management procedures. The risk management charter
and policy of Hitachi Energy India provide a framework
for recognizing, prioritizing, mitigating, and overseeing
significant risk events and action plans. The method was
examined, the risks were determined, and mitigation
measures were decided upon during the financial time.
Key risk areas were identified as supply chain interruptions,
people, market and competition, cyber security, local content

and competences, transformation project, quality, strategy,
technology, finance, operations and systems, legal and
regulatory, and human resources.
There are suitable assurance and monitoring procedures,
such as crisis management training, yearly updating of
crisis management plans, security plan risk, and business
continuity plan, to assure the efficacy of the risk management
framework. As seen by their successful preservation of
business continuity throughout the COVID-19 pandemic,
Hitachi Energy India continues to recognize possible threats
in a changing market and address them successfully.
At various levels, periodic evaluations of risks and their
possible effects on business development, profitability,
talent engagement, and market position are carried
out based on the organizational structure matrix.
Responses to significant operational risks are frequently
carried out using information from internal and external
assessments,
internal
performance
reviews,
and
other sources.
Hitachi Energy India’s risk management strategy aims to
reduce negative effects, effectively take advantage of market
possibilities and boost corporate competitiveness. Hitachi
Energy India is well-equipped to handle possible risks and
guarantee long-term success because it prioritizes risk
management and governance.

Internal control systems and their
adequacy
Internal Controls (IC) in your Company have been designed
to withstand and further the interest of all stakeholders by
providing an environment which is conducive to conduct its
operations. Your Company’s IC environment is in place to take
care of, inter alia, financial and operational risks.
Your Company maintains a holistic framework of internal
control to that effect with elements like a Country Management
Committee, Group Directives and Instructions, Local
Management Instructions, Entity-Level Controls, Process
Level Controls and Management Testing Programs.
The same provides a platform for adequate control processes
commensurate with the size of the Company.
A strong emphasis on integrity and ethics forms a part of
your Company’s work culture. An independent management
testing team having expertise in the field, performs Internal
Financial Control effectiveness testing.

Outlook for FY 2023-24
The Indian economy positioned itself better than most
economies, with the economic growth in FY2023-24
estimated to be the highest among the advanced economies.
The growth momentum is expected to continue despite global
headwinds and tight financial conditions supported by solid
domestic demand and a pickup in capital investment. The
government has continued pushing for capital expenditure,
and private consumption demand leading to a healthy
and stable performance. This has well reflected in high-

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

frequency indicators, such as Purchasing Manager’s Index for
manufacturing and services, GST collections, E-way bills, and
industrial production levels.
Risks remain particularly for the global economy, with
anticipated slowdown in global growth impacting the pace of
private capex and the gradual waning of recovering demand.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has forecasted a
slowdown in global growth from 3.2 percent in 2022 to
2.7 percent in 2023, dampening trade growth.
However, India’s economy is expected to continue its rapid
growth trajectory in 2024, driven by several factors, including
the transition toward cleaner energy sources. The Indian
government has set ambitious goals to increase the share
of renewable energy in the country’s energy mix to half by
2030 and achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2070. And
this transition is expected to play a vital role in supporting
economic growth in the future. India is one of the highest
consumers of electricity, which is also the reflection of pent-up
economic activity driven by urbanization and industrialization.
India is currently the world’s third-largest market for renewable
energy, and the government has set ambitious targets to increase
the share of renewable energy in the country’s energy mix. The
Indian government’s push towards green growth is visible in its
annual budget. The Company sees a strong business potential
as capex activity picks up in areas of transportation, data
centers, e-mobility, and manufacturing, where it has a diverse
product portfolio offering in the form of traction transformers,
dry-type transformers, switchgears, SCADA systems, energy
management systems, substations, etc.
Investment with leveraging sunrise opportunities while
embracing energy transition and climate action have been
other focus areas. The government has been focusing on
energy transition by earmarking ₹ 35,000 Crores for priority
capital towards net zero and energy security during the union
budget announcement. The Central Electricity Authority is
expected to spend ₹ 2.44 Crores on transmission systems
for renewable grid integration from 2023 to 2030, which
presents a significant growth opportunity for the Company.
This shift towards renewable energy power generation will
require a strong inter-state transmission system to ensure
smooth evacuation to the load centers, and this presents an
opportunity for core T&D business. The Ministry of Power
has released a comprehensive plan for evacuation of power
from planned renewable capacity addition of 335 GW by
2030, entailing transmission capex of ₹ 2,40,000 Crores.
The Company’s technology is used by more than half of the
HVDC links in the country. Given this, the new local HVDC
manufacturing footprint and the up coming government
tenders to evacuate power from zones with large renewable
energy potential, your Company is well positioned for
growth in this segment. The Company’s range of products,
solutions, and services for reducing costs, increasing safety,
and improving efficiency for the offshore segment, including
innovative offshore portfolio of transformers that can operate
in environments with salinity and hydrocarbon, extreme
weather conditions like hurricanes, typhoons, winds, etc.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 105

The government’s initiatives have been complimented with
focus on building wider robust energy systems, developing
energy storage solutions, and investing in smart grid
technologies to manage the variability of renewable energy
sources. As a leading player in the high voltage market in India,
the Company is expected to benefit from the growth in the
energy sector as it continues to provide innovative products
to the industry. Country’s focus on renewable grid integration,
data centers, transport, e-mobility, HVDC which are also our
high growth markets, is expected to support us favorably.
The government provides an impetus for growth along
four priorities: PM GatiShakti encompassing economic
transformation, seamless multimodal connectivity, and
logistics efficiency, riding on roads, railways, mass transport or
metros. For instance there is a significant push on the transport
sectorwith ₹ 7,542 Crores allocated for 100 % electrification
of railways. The Company has been a trusting partner
for transportation projects in India, with high-technology
offerings, and metro projects, high-speed rail, Vande Bharat.
Furthermore, E-mobility offers a huge business opportunity for
the Company through our innovative flash and fleet charging
solutions-Grid-eMotion™ Flash and GrideMotion™ Fleet.
Data centers are also expected to experience significant growth
over the next six years, with a sixfold increase in data center
capacity expected. This presents robust growth opportunities
for the Company, particularly in powering data centers.
India’s large companies have pledged to curb greenhouse
emissions to meet the country’s ESG targets, and this
provides a strong business opportunity for the Company given
our constant pursuit to increase spend on digital solutions to
increase efficiency, productivity through system design and
power quality solutions.
The Company has a complete range of power and distribution
transformers and other power equipment, that supports
utilities and industrials to maximize return on assets
investment by ensuring high reliability, reducing life cycle
costs, and ensuring optimized performance while lowering
environmental impact. The Company’s range of new launches
the TXpert™ Solution, which enables data processing to save
costs, optimize operations, and increase revenue. The digital
transformers enhance operational reliability using a conditionbased maintenance approach. The Company continues to
innovate and customize products such as Scott Transformer
and higher rating transformers suiting customer needs, who
are embracing clean energy transition.
The government is pursuing to boosting infrastructure
investments and incentivize manufacturing to support the
Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign while cementing the country’s
position on the global map enabling the country to become
a crucial link in the worldwide supply chain. This is expected
to enable policy-led support for the Company which has a
strong manufacturing infrastructure and continues to build
the indigenous strength comprising of 19 facilities across
eight locations.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

106 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Opportunities and threats
In its report for 2023, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) has given its ‘final warning’, underscoring that
the rising amount of Greenhouse Gas emission has pushed
the world to the brink of irrevocable damage climate change.
It further outlines that more than 300 Crore people already live
in areas that are “highly vulnerable” to climate breakdown and
half of the global population now experiences severe water
scarcity for at least part of the year.
Around the time of the release of the above report, India
became the most populated country in the world; now 17.8
percent of the world’s population rests on 2.1 percent of the
world’s landmass. This places extreme stress on the natural
resources around us. And the nation has to rigorously follow
its net zero ambition and milestones like the one in 2030, to
ensure a respectable quality of life for its citizens.
To tackle such demands, the world is increasingly moving
to non-polluting technologies; i.e. to say, electric version of
cars, heating and cooling systems, and factories that run on
clean sources of electricity like wind, solar or nuclear power.
By 2050, electricity will constitute half of the world’s energy
system as against the current 20 percent. In addition, the
current global energy crisis is providing much required
impetus for clean energy investment, across various
industries, worldwide.
The International Energy Agency highlights that clean
energy transitions offer major opportunities for growth
and employment in new and expanding industries. New
infrastructure - transportation, transmission, distribution
or storage of electricity, hydrogen - will form the backbone
of the new energy economy in all countries. Building clean
energy infrastructure can take 10 years or more. In parallel,
technology supply chains and energy supply chains remain
interrelated – as witnessed in the past year. Supply chains
breakdowns have pushed up clean energy technology prices
making countries’ clean energy transitions more difficult and
costly. Hence, based on its requirements, strengths and
weaknesses, countries need to identify how it can benefit
from the opportunities of the new energy economy.
India has set itself a long term ambition of net-zero by 2070,
with corresponding milestones. 2030 ambitions including
halving its energy intensity, quadrupling its renewable
energy consumption to 500GW, converting 70 percent of its

commercial passenger vehicle fleet to electric, and so on,
are targets which must be achieved in letter and spirit for
tangible sustainability. There are big dividends for countries
that get their clean energy industrial strategies right, with
global markets, investors, and developers keenly watching
for supporting policies and regulations for growth of
environment/clean technologies and infrastructure.
This places your Company, its expertise and pioneering
technologies, at the center of action for a sustainable energy
future. From core technologies like power transformers,
circuit breakers and their path-breaking variants that match
eco-efficiency while delivering reliability in the middle of high
seas, to consulting services, digitalization and automation –
your Company straddles IT & OT with the confidence that is
necessary to cater to the urgent need of the environment.
Your Company sees opportunities for inter-regional links and
upgrades of maturing HVDC stations. With the increasing
digitalization of the power grid, cybersecurity becomes an
important aspect relating to critical infrastructure. Additionally,
with digital twins, remote monitoring, eco-efficient products
and maintenance options, managing power infrastructure
to ensure reliability and ease of maintenance is an area of
opportunity.
The challenge today is bigger than one Company, one team
and one individual. Together with customers and partners,
Hitachi Energy India collaborate and co-create innovative
solutions, with pioneering technology, leveraging both digital
and energy platforms. Your Company has the commitment,
passion and knowledge for advancing a sustainable energy
future for all.

Cautionary statement
Certain statements made in the Management Discussion
and Analysis Report relating to the Company’s objectives,
projections, outlook, expectations, estimates and others
may constitute ‘forward looking statements’ within the
meaning of applicable laws and regulations. Actual results
may differ from such expectations whether expressed or
implied. Several factors could make significant difference
to your Company’s operations. These include climatic
and economic conditions affecting demand and supply,
Government regulations, taxation, and natural calamities
over which the Company does not have any direct control.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 107

Annexure – B to Board’s Report
Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration
The information relating to the remuneration of Directors / Key Managerial Personnel as required under Section 197(12) of the
Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
1.

Ratio of the remuneration of each Executive Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for
the financial year 2022-23, the percentage increase in remuneration of Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and General Counsel & Company Secretary during the financial year 2022-23 (April 2022 to March 2023).
S. No.

Name of the Director/ Key
Managerial Personnel

Designation

1.

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer

Ratio of remuneration of
each Director to median
remuneration of employees
54:1

Percentage increase
in Remuneration
21.76%

2.

Mr. Ajay Singh

Chief Financial Officer

-

20.00%

3.

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda

General Counsel & Company Secretary

-

20.00%

Percentage of increase in remuneration relates to fixed component of salary. Other components of the remuneration is as disclosed
elsewhere in the Report.
Notes:
a)

Annual Revision in remuneration was with effect from July 01, 2022 for all the Key Managerial Personnel.

b)

Independent Directors of the Company are entitled for sitting fees and commission as per the statutory provisions and within the limits
approved by the shareholders. As a policy, the Non-Executive-Non-Independent Directors are neither paid sitting fee nor paid any
commission. The details of remuneration of Non-executive Directors are provided in the Corporate Governance Report. The ratio of
remuneration and percentage increase for Non-executive Directors Remuneration is therefore not considered for the above purpose.

2.

Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees for the financial year: 7.20 percent.

3.

Number of permanent employees on rolls of the Company as on March 31, 2023: 2323 employees.

4.

Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than managerial personnel in the last financial
year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and to
point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration. The average increment
of all employees and managerial personnel is based on performance targets, inflations, prevailing industry trends and
benchmark.
The same is as per Company’s increment guideline.

5.

Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid to Directors, KMPs, and employees is as per the Remuneration Policy of
the Company.
By order of the Board
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Achim Michael Braun

Place: Bengaluru

Chairman

Date: May 24, 2023

DIN: 08596097

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

108 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Annexure – C to Board’s Report
Report on Corporate Governance
1.

Company’s Philosophy on Code of Governance:
The Company’s Code of Governance philosophy is to establish and manage sustainable growing businesses with
the highest standards of honesty, openness, and accountability to maximize stakeholders’ value while adhering to all
applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
The Company fully realizes its shareholders’ entitlement to information on the Company’s performance and considers itself a
trustee of its shareholders. The Company provides thorough information to its shareholders on a variety of subjects impacting
the Company’s business and financial performance. The Company’s basic corporate governance concept is to achieve
business excellence and devote itself to growing long-term shareholder value while keeping all stakeholders’ requirements
and interests in mind. The Company is dedicated to transparency in all of its dealings and values corporate ethics.
During the year under review, Hitachi Energy India Limited is proud to share that the Company was awarded the prestigious
“Golden Peacock Award for Excellence in Corporate Governance - 2022”. This recognition reflects the Company’s
strong commitment to upholding the highest standards of corporate governance, ethics, and transparency in all its
business operations. Your Company recognizes the critical role that good governance plays in building trust within the
stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders, and the communities in which the Company operates. This
award is a testament to our team’s hard work and dedication, and the Company will continue to strive towards excellence
in all aspects of its business.

2.

Board of Directors:
(a)

The Board of Directors consists of 6 Directors viz., three Independent and three Non-Independent, out of which two
Independent Directors are women Directors. Out of the three Non-Independent Directors, one is a Managing Director
and CEO, and which is in conformity with the requirements of Regulation 17 of the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations). The Chairman of
the Board is a Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director.

(b)

Except for the Managing Director and Independent Directors, the remaining two Non-Independent, Non-Executive
Directors are liable to retire by rotation. In the ensuing Annual General Meeting, Mr. Ismo Antero Haka (DIN: 08598862),
Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director, who is liable to retire by rotation being eligible has opted for reappointment. He is a Nominee Director of Promoter. There is no relationship between the Directors inter-se during
the financial year under review, other than payment of sitting fees, payment of commission and reimbursement of
expenses incurred by them for the purpose of attending meetings of the Company.

(c)

Composition / Category of Board of Directors as on March 31, 2023:
Committee membership
/ Chairmanship in Public
Companies(3)

Name of the Director

Category(1)

Number of Director
ships in other Indian
companies(2)

Member

Chairman

No. and % of
Equity Shares
held in the
Company (%)

Mr. Nuguri Venu

MD & CEO

3

2

NIL

NIL

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

Chairman, NED

-

NIL

NIL

NIL

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

NED

-

1

NIL

NIL

Mr. Mukesh Butani(4)

NED (ID)

6

4

1

NIL

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar(4)

NED (ID)

5

1

NIL

NIL

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

NED (ID)

5

7

1

NIL

(4)

(1)

Category: NED - Non-Executive Director, MD - Managing Director, CEO - Chief Executive Officer, NED (ID) - Non-Executive,
Independent Director.

(2)

Includes directorships in Private Limited Companies, Section 8 (Non-Profit) Companies and Company Limited by Guarantee.

(3)

Includes only the Audit Committee and the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of Public Limited Companies.

(4)

During the year under review, Mr. Mukesh Butani (DIN: 01452839), Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (DIN: 06629992) and
Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) were reappointed as Independent Directors of the Company for a second term of five (5)
consecutive years effective from December 24, 2022 to December 23, 2027.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 109

None of the Directors on the Board is a member of more than 10 Committees and Chairman of more than 5
Committees across all listed companies in which they are Directors. The necessary disclosures regarding committee
positions have been made by all the Directors.
Further, none of the Directors hold any shares in the Company.
Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) has resigned from the position of Independent Director of the Company effective
from May 24, 2023 and pursuant to the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board of
Directors of the Company at their Meeting held on May 24, 2023, approved the appointment of Ms. Meena Ganesh
(DIN: 00528252) as an Additional Director in the capacity of Independent Director for a term of 5 (five) years effective
from May 24, 2023 to May 23, 2028, subject to approval of the Shareholders of the Company at the ensuing fourth
Annual General Meeting.
(d)

No. of Board Meetings held in the financial year 2022-23 (April 01, 2022 to March 31, 2023) and the dates on
which held:
Four (4) Board meetings were held during the financial year 2022-23 viz., (1) May 26, 2022 (adjourned and concluded
on May 27, 2022); (2) July 21, 2022; (3) November 4, 2022 and (4) February 6, 2023. The necessary quorum was
present for all the meetings.

(e)

Attendance of Directors at the Board Meetings and Annual General Meeting (AGM) held during the financial
year 2022-23:
Attendance
S. No.

Name of the Director

Board Meetings held
during the year

Board Meetings
attended

Whether present at AGM
held on July 22, 2022*

1.

Mr. Nuguri Venu

4

4

Yes

2.

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

4

4

Yes

3.

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

4

4

Yes

4.

Mr. Mukesh Butani

4

4

Yes

5.

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

4

4

Yes

6.

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

4

4

Yes

*The AGM was held through video conferencing (“VC”) and Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”).

(f)

Directorship in Other Listed entities as on March 31, 2023 and category of Directorship:
S. No.

Name of the Director

Name of the other listed entities

Category of directorship

1

Mr. Nuguri Venu

NIL

NIL

2

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

NIL

NIL

3

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

NIL

NIL

Latent View Analytics Limited

Independent

Dabur India Limited

Independent

IndusInd Bank Limited

Independent

Matrimony.com Limited

Independent

HCL Technologies Limited

Independent

L&T Infra Credit Limited

Independent

4

5

6

Mr. Mukesh Butani

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

None of the Directors holds office in more than 10 public companies as prescribed under Section 165(1) of the Act.
No Director holds Directorships in more than 7 listed companies. Further, none of the Non-Executive Directors
serves as Independent Directors in more than 7 listed companies as required under Regulation 17A of the Listing
Regulations. The Managing Director does not serve as an Independent Director in any listed Company.
(g)

Board’s Core Skills/ Expertise/ Competencies:
For effective functioning of the Board, the Company’s Board needs to have skills/expertise/competencies in the
areas of Business, Finance & Accounting and Governance/Legal. The Company’s Board comprises of people from
diverse fields and across Globe.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

110 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

The Company’s Directors are qualified and possess the appropriate knowledge, skills, experience, expertise,
diversity and independence, covering Business, Finance & Accounting and Governance/ Legal. In the table given
below, various skills/ expertise/ competencies of the Board of Directors are given:

(h)

Areas of Skills / Expertise / Competencies

S. No.

Name of the Director

Business

Finance & Accounting

1.

Mr. Nuguri Venu

√

√

2.

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

√

3.

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

√

√
√

Governance / Legal
√
√
√

4.

Mr. Mukesh Butani

√

5.

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

√

√

√

6.

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

√

√

Independent Directors:
•

The Independent Directors are from diverse fields of expertise having long-standing experience and
expert knowledge in their respective fields which is very relevant as well as of considerable value for the
Company’s business.
As a part of the familiarization programme as required under Listing Regulations, the Directors have been
apprised during the Board/Committee Meetings about the amendments to the various enactments viz.,
Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and Listing Regulations. Further, as a part of Board and Committee meetings,
members of the Board are also apprised on various developments in business both from an internal and
external perspective.

•

During the period under review, the Company has conducted the familiarization programme and details are
available on the website at: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/board-of-directors

•

The terms and conditions of appointment of the Independent Directors are disclosed in the Company’s website
at: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/board-of-directors

•

Independent Directors of the Company have provided a declaration as required under the Companies Act,
2013 and Listing Regulations. The Board has noted the said declarations and opined that all Independent
Directors fulfil the conditions of independence and are independent of the management of the Company.
All Independent Directors fulfil the requirements stipulated in Regulation 25(1) of the Listing Regulations and
the Companies Act, 2013.

3.

•

The key managerial personnel of the Company provides regular updates to all the Directors by making a
presentation(s) on key business developments, business & financial performance, new strategic initiatives,
regulatory changes and other related matters during the Board meetings.

•

During the financial year under review, one separate meeting of the Independent Directors was held on
May 26, 2022 without the presence of Non-executive Directors/ Managing Director/ Management, to discuss
the matter as required/ agreed amongst them in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and
Listing Regulations.

(i)

The Board periodically reviews the compliance reports submitted by the Management in respect of all laws applicable
to the Company.

(j)

Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of
the Listing Regulations is enclosed to this Annual Report.

Audit Committee:
(i)

Terms of Reference:
The Audit Committee acts on the terms of reference given by the Board pursuant to Section 177 of the Act and
Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations.
The terms of reference are briefly described below:
•

Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure
that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible.

•

Recommending the Board, appointment, re-appointment, replacement or removal (in the event of necessity)
of Statutory Auditors, Cost Auditors, Secretarial Auditors and/ or any other auditors including fixation of
remuneration.

•

Approval of payment to Statutory Auditors for any other services rendered by the Statutory Auditors.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

•

•

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 111

Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval,
with particular reference to:(a)

Matters required to be included in the Director’s Responsibility Statement to be included in the Board’s
reporting in terms of sub-section (5) of Section 134 of the Act.

(b)

Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same.

(c)

Major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management.

(d)

Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings.

(e)

Compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements.

(f)

Disclosure of any related party transactions; and

(g)

Qualifications in the draft audit report.

Reviewing, with the management:(a)

The quarterly financial statements before submission to the Board for approval.

(b)

Performance of Auditors, Internal Auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems.

•

Review and monitor the auditor’s independence and performance and effectiveness of the audit process.

•

Review the adequacy of the Internal Audit function including the structure of the internal audit department,
staffing and seniority of the head of the department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal
audit.

•

Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the Company with the related parties.

•

Approval on appointment of Chief Financial Officer including the Whole-time Director - Finance or any other
person heading the finance function or discharging that function after assessing the qualification, experience
and background etc., of such incumbent.

•

Reviewing the proposal for discontinuation / closure of any of the business operations of the Company.

•

Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments.

•

Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary.

•

Monitoring the end use of funds raised through public offers and related matters.

•

Review proposals for mergers, demergers, acquisitions, carve-outs, sale, and transfer of business and its
valuation report and fairness opinion, if any, thereof.

•

Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems.

•

Discussing with internal auditors any significant findings and follow up thereon.

•

Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where there is
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the
matter to the Board.

•

Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of the audit as
well as post audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern.

•

To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders,
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors.

•

Review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism.

•

Carry out such other functions as may be delegated by the Board from time to time.

•

Review various investment proposals before the same is submitted to the Board of Directors and also review
the guidelines for investing surplus funds of the Company.

•

To appoint valuers for the valuation of the undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary
including stocks, shares, securities, goodwill or any other assets or net worth of a Company or liability of the
Company under the provisions of the Act.

In addition to the above, the following items are reviewed by the Audit Committee:
•

Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.

•

Management letters/letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors.

•

Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses and

•

Appointment, removal, and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

112 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

•

Statement of Deviations:
a)

Quarterly statement of deviation(s), including the report of monitoring agency, if applicable, submitted to
stock exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 32(1).

b)

Annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document/
prospectus/notice in terms of Regulation 32(7).

The Audit Committee is vested with the necessary powers to achieve its objectives.
The Committee has discharged such other role/function as envisaged under Regulation 18(3) read with Part C of
Schedule II of the Listing Regulations and the provisions of Section 177 of the Act.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee was present at the last AGM (3rd AGM held on July 22, 2022).
(ii)

Composition, Name of Members & Chairperson, Meetings held during the Financial Year and Attendance
at Meetings:
The Audit Committee presently consists of three Independent Directors and one Executive Director (Managing
Director and CEO). The Committee has held 4 meetings during the financial year 2022-23 (April 01, 2022 to March 31,
2023) on May 27, 2022, July 21, 2022, November 04, 2022 and February 06, 2023.
The composition of the Audit Committee as on March 31, 2023 and the attendance of members at the meetings held
during the financial year 2022-23 were as follows:
No. of meetings

Members of the Committee

Designation

Held

Attended

Mr. Mukesh Butani

Chairman, Independent Director

4

4

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Independent Director

4

4

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

Independent Director

4

4

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and CEO

4

4

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to the
Audit Committee.
The gap between the two Audit Committee Meetings did not exceed 120 days. The necessary quorum was present
at the above Meetings.
4.

Nomination and Remuneration (NRC) Committee:
(i)

Terms of Reference:
The terms of reference and role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee are as per the provisions of
Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations which includes formulating the criteria to:
•

Determine qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and recommend to the Board a
policy, relating to the remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel and other employees;

•

For every appointment of an independent director, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall evaluate
the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and on the basis of such evaluation, prepare a
description of the role and capabilities required of an independent director. The person recommended to the
Board for appointment as an independent director shall have the capabilities identified in such description. For
the purpose of identifying suitable candidates, the Committee may:
(a)

use the services of an external agency, if required;

(b)

consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, having due regard to diversity; and

(c)

consider the time commitments of the candidates.

•

Evaluation of Independent Directors and the Board;

•

Devising a policy on Board diversity;

•

Identifying persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management
in accordance with the criteria laid down and recommend to the Board their appointment and removal.

•

Recommending to the Board on remuneration, Performance Bonus etc., payable to the Executive Director(s) /
Managing Director, commission payable to Independent Directors.

•

Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management.

The policy is framed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board. The terms and
conditions of appointment are disclosed in the website of the Company at: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/
investor-relations/board-of-directors
Consequent to the change in the name of the Company, the policy has been amended in the NRC meeting held
on May 26, 2022 and approved by the Board of Directors at their meeting held on May 26, 2022 (adjourned and
concluded on May 27, 2022).

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

(ii)

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 113

Composition, Name of Members & Chairperson, Meetings held during the Financial Year and Attendance at
Meetings:
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee presently consists of three Non-Executive Directors, two being
independent. The Chairman is a Non-Executive and Independent Director.
During the financial year under review, 2 meetings were held on May 26, 2022 and July 21, 2022.
The composition of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee as on March 31, 2023 and the attendance of
members at the meetings held during the financial year 2022-23 were as follows:

(iii)

Members of the Committee

Designation

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar
Ms. Nishi Vasudeva
Mr. Achim Michael Braun

No. of meetings
Held

Attended

Chairperson, Independent Director

2

2

Independent Director

2

2

Non-Executive Non-Independent Director

2

2

Remuneration Policy / Criteria for Payments to Directors / Senior Management Employees:
The Company has a credible and transparent policy for determining and accounting for the remuneration of the
Executive / Non-Executive Independent Directors. Independent Directors’ remuneration is governed by the external
competitive environment, track record of the individuals, effective participation in the meetings, comparable industry
standards and performance of the Company. The remuneration determined for the Executive / Independent Directors is
subject to the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee also reviewed the performance of the Board on the
basis of the criteria such as the contribution of the individual director to the Board and Committee meetings like
preparedness on the issues to be discussed, meaningful and constructive contribution and inputs in meetings, etc.
In addition, the Chairman was also evaluated on the key aspects of his role.
The Board of Directors based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee has adopted
the performance review criteria. After the conclusion of the period under review, the revision was carried out by the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee in the performance evaluation criteria. Subsequently, the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors have reviewed the performance of the Directors and the Board
as a whole for the financial year under review.
The Non-Executive Independent Directors are compensated by way of commission for the financial year 2022-23
in the financial year 2023-24 and the criteria being their attendance in the Board / Committee Meetings, apart from
sitting fees and reimbursement of other expenses.
As per policy, the Non - Executive - Non - Independent Directors are neither paid a sitting fee nor paid any commission.
The Independent Directors are entitled to sitting fees for attending the Board / Committee Meetings.
Sitting fees for Board and Audit Committee Meetings is ₹ 60,000 per Director per meeting and for other Committees,
the sitting fee is ₹ 30,000 per Director per meeting.
The remuneration payable to the Managing Director and CEO and Senior Management personnel including KMP are
structured as fixed and variable components. The fixed remuneration comprises salaries, perquisites and retirement
benefits and the variable component comprises an annual performance bonus which is linked to the achievement of
the scorecard fixed at the beginning of the year and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which is subject to achievement of
performance measures as attached to the Grant Letter issued from time to time in line with Hitachi Energy group policy.

5.

Details of Remuneration Paid to all the Directors during the Financial Year 2022-23:
A.

Salary, Performance Bonus and Commission to Directors:
The Remuneration paid to all the Directors of the Company containing salary, performance bonus and commission
to Directors is as tabled below:
(Amount in ₹ Lakhs)
Name of the Director

Sitting fees

Salary & Perquisites

Commission

Stock Option

Pension

Mr. Nuguri Venu

-

533.72 *

-

-

-

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

-

-

-

-

-

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

-

-

-

-

-

Mr. Mukesh Butani

7.20

-

39.00 **

-

-

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

7.20

-

37.00 **

-

-

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

8.10

-

39.40 **

-

-

* Remuneration of ₹ 533.72 Lakhs was for the financial year 2022-23 (April 01, 2022 to March 31, 2023) which includes a performance
bonus of ₹ 145.61 Lakhs pertaining to the financial period April 01, 2021 to March 31, 2022 which was paid during financial year
2022-23.
** Commission for the financial period 2021-22 was paid during the financial year 2022-23.

114 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Commission to Independent Directors for the Financial Year 2022-23 (April 01, 2022 to March 31, 2023):

B.

1.

For Board Meetings: a fixed amount of ₹ 25 Lakhs per Independent Director based on 100 percent participation
by way of attendance in the meetings.

2.

For Committee Meetings: a fixed amount of ₹ 3 Lakhs per Independent Director based on 100 percent
participation by way of attendance in the meetings.

3.

For the Chairman of the Audit Committee: a fixed amount of ₹ 8 Lakhs for 100 percent participation by way of
attendance in the meetings.

4.

The above commission payable to Independent Directors of the Company, however, shall not exceed the
aggregate 1 percent per annum of the net profits of the Company computed in the manner laid down in the
Companies Act, 2013.

5.

Commission payable for the financial year 2022-23 will be paid in the financial year 2023-24 as follows:
S. No.

Name of the Directors

Amt in ₹

1

Mr. Mukesh Butani

39,00,000

2

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

37,00,000

3

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

40,00,000

Fixed Component / Performance Linked Incentive / Criteria:
Performance-related Bonus including Long Term Incentive Plan is payable to the Managing Director only as per the
terms of the Contract entered into between the Company and the Managing Director.

C.

D.

Service Contract / Notice Period / Severance Fees:
(a)

The Contract of Service entered into by the Company with Mr. Nuguri Venu, Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer provides that the Company and the Managing Director shall be entitled to terminate the
agreement by giving six months’ notice in writing on either side.

(b)

No severance fee is payable by the Company to the Managing Director on termination of the agreement.

Stock Option:
The Company does not have a stock option scheme therefore the same is not applicable. No Director holds any
Equity shares of the Company.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have any pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company.

E.

Performance Evaluation of Directors:
The performance Evaluation of Directors including that of Independent Directors as required under the Companies
Act, 2013 and SEBI Listing Regulations for the financial year 2022-23 was undertaken during the period 2022-23.

6.

Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee:
The said Committee has been authorized to approve the transfer/ transmission/ transposition/ demat/ remat of shares/
deletion of name and issue of duplicate share certificates and taking note of Members’ grievances.
Following are the terms of reference of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee:
1.

Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the listed entity including complaints related to the transfer/
transmission of shares, non-receipt of the annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/ duplicate
certificates, general meetings, etc.

2.

Review of measures taken for the effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.

3.

Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the listed entity in respect of various services being
rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.

4.

Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants / annual reports / statutory notices by the shareholders
of the Company.

The Stakeholders Relationship Committee shall discharge such other role/ function as prescribed by the Board of Directors
and/ or envisaged under Regulation 20 read with Part D of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations and the provisions of
Section 178 of the Act.
In order to expedite the process, the Board of Directors has also delegated the authority to any two of the Managing
Director and CEO, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary to approve the transfer/ transmission/ transposition
of shares/ remat/ demat / deletion of name, issue of duplicate shares requests as and when required from time to time.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 115

4 meetings of the Committee were held during this financial year viz., on May 26, 2022, July 21, 2022, November 04, 2022
and February 06, 2023.
The Committee is chaired by Ms. Nishi Vasudeva, Independent Director. Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel,
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to the Committee.
The composition of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee as of March 31, 2023 and the attendance of members at
the meetings held during the financial year 2022-23 are as follows:
No. of meetings

Members of the Committee

Designation

Held

Attended

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

Chairperson, Independent Director

4

4

Mr. Mukesh Butani

Independent Director

4

4

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and CEO

4

4

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director

4

4

There were no investor queries/ investor grievances pending during the period under review. Continuous efforts are made
to ensure that grievances are more expeditiously redressed to the complete satisfaction of the investors.
The details of investors’ complaints received and resolved during the financial year 2022-23 are as under:

7.

No. of investors’ complaints received
during FY 2022-23

No. of investors’ complaints resolved
during FY 2022-23

Investors’ complaints pending at
the end of FY 2022-23

3

3

0

Risk Management Committee:
The Company has in place a mechanism to inform Board Members about the risk assessment and minimization procedures
and review to ensure that executive management controls risks by means of a properly defined framework. The Company
has formulated a Policy on Risk Management and constituted a Risk Management Committee.
The terms of reference and role of the Risk Management Committee are as per the provisions of Regulation 21 of the
Listing Regulations which includes formulating the criteria to:
1.

Formulate a detailed risk management policy which shall include:a.

A framework for identification of internal and external risks specifically faced by the listed entity, in particular
including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability (particularly, ESG-related risks), information, cyber
security risks, or any other risk as may be determined by the Committee.

b.

Measures for risk mitigation including systems and processes for internal control of identified risks.

c.

Business continuity plan.

2.

Ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks associated
with the business of the Company.

3.

Monitor and oversee the implementation of the risk management policy, including evaluating the adequacy of risk
management systems.

4.

Periodically review the risk management policy, at least once in two years, including by considering the changing
industry dynamics and evolving complexity.

5.

Keep the board of directors informed about the nature and content of its discussions, recommendations and actions
to be taken.

6.

The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to review by
the Risk Management Committee.

Pursuant to the change of name of the Company, the Risk Management policy was amended in the meeting held on
July 08, 2022. Further, the list of tentative risks was also revisited and adopted in consonance with the industry and
market trends.
Three meetings were held during the financial year viz., July 08, 2022, November 04, 2022 and February 06, 2023.
The Committee is chaired by Mr. Mukesh Butani – Independent Director. Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel,
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to the Risk Management Committee.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

116 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

The composition of the Risk Management Committee as on March 31, 2023 and the attendance of members at the
meetings held during the financial year 2022-23 are as follows:

8.

No. of meetings

Members of the Committee

Designation

Mr. Mukesh Butani

Chairman, Independent Director

3

3

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

Independent Director

3

3

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and CEO

3

3

Held

Attended

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director

3

3

Mr. Ajay Singh

Chief Financial Officer

3

3

Corporate Social Responsibility Committee:
Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee of the Board
has been constituted.
The terms of reference and role of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee are as per the provisions of Section 135
of the Companies Act, 2013.
The CSR Committee shall be responsible for formulating and recommending to the Board, the CSR Policy and an Annual
Action Plan, which shall include the following:
•

list of CSR projects or programs that are approved to be undertaken in areas or subjects as specified in Schedule
VII of the Act,

•

the manner of execution of such projects or programs,

•

the modalities of utilization of funds and implementation schedules for the projects or programs,

•

monitoring and reporting mechanism for the projects or programs,

•

details of need and impact assessment, if any, for the projects undertaken by the Company, and,

•

to monitor the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the Company from time to time.

During the financial year under review, 4 meetings were held viz. May 26, 2022, July 21, 2022, November 04, 2022 and
February 06, 2023.
The Committee is chaired by Ms. Akila Krishnakumar, Independent Director. The composition of the Committee as of
March 31, 2023 and the attendance of members at the meetings held during the financial year 2022-23 are as follows:
No. of meetings

Members of the Committee

Designation

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Chairperson, Independent Director

4

4

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and CEO

4

4

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director

4

4

Held

Attended

The Company has formulated a Policy for its CSR and also identified the following key areas for undertaking CSR activities:
•

Promote gender equality and empowering of women in the engineering workforce
To promote gender equality by ensuring initiatives to empower / advancement of women and in the engineering work
force, thereby increasing diversity and inclusion.

•

Endorse education, employability & health care
To create necessary infrastructure and resources to enable the promotion of primary education among children and
impart vocational skills training to the youth, promoting health care including preventive health care.

•

Social impact projects
To collaborate with communities to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access to electricity in the
country, especially in rural areas for its development.

•

Support national disaster management and other government initiatives
To actively support national disaster management including relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities and
support in other initiatives for promoting, including preventive measures for health care systems, hygiene and sanitation.

•

Aid in sustainable development goals
To promote an ecosystem for sustainable development goals by encouraging usage of indigenous, innovative and
sustainable solutions thereby aiding, developing, promoting, facilitating and undertaking testing of new frontiers
of science, technology, engineering, and environment in partnership with like-minded institutions, incubators
and sponsors.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 117

The Company’s CSR policy may be viewed on the Company’s website at: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investorrelations/corporate-governance#policies
Further details on CSR expenditure and projects are provided in the Annexure to Board’s Report.
9.

Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Committee:
The Company is dedicated towards the reduction of its carbon footprint and for its social and employee’s welfare and
governance causes. Basis the guidance of SEBI on Environment, Social and Governance reporting, the Company
constituted an Environment, Social and Governance committee in the Board meeting held on October 22, 2021. The
charter and objectives of this Committee were adopted by the Committee and Board of Directors during the financial
year under review. The work under ESG was commenced during the financial year under review. The details of the
performance and reporting under ESG is included under Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, forming
part of this Report.
Charter and Objectives of ESG Committee:
Drivers of ESG:
•

Hitachi Energy’s Sustainability 2030 strategy based on UN SDGs based on four pillars of: Planet, People, Peace, and
Partnerships

•

Investor Expectations

•

Evolving Compliance and Stock Exchange Listing Requirements

•

Contribution to an Integrated Strategic Approach-Increased revenues and innovation

•

Cost savings and efficiencies

•

Improved access to capital

•

Improvements in staff morale

•

Improved reputation and stakeholder relations

•

Doing “the right thing”

Sustainability vs ESG: ESG Factors for Better Business Performance:
Hitachi Energy had placed sustainability at the heart of its purpose, focusing on: Advancing a sustainable energy future for
all Company ESG Purpose and Charter Purpose.
ESG Committee has been constituted with the objective to assist the Board of Directors of the Company in fulfilling its
oversight responsibilities in relation to Hitachi Energy’s objectives, policies, and practices pertaining to:
•

Environment: Interaction with the physical environment

•

Social: Impact on society and communities

•

Governance: How the Company is governed

With Sustainability 2030 strategy based on four pillars of:
•

Planet -Towards carbon neutral

•

People -Diversity plus collaboration equals great innovation

•

Peace -Peaceful inclusive and sustainable societies

•

Partnerships -Foster multi stakeholder partnerships
-

The Committee shall meet at least once during the financial year. Meetings of the ESG Committee shall be held
either in person or by virtual audio/ video conference mode.

-

The Committee shall invite such other employees or engage third parties to attend the meetings and / or to
monitor the implementation of ESG objectives.

-

The Committee shall make available to the Board the minutes of its meetings.

Roles & Responsibilities of ESG Committee:
ESG Committee shall undertake the following:
(1)

Monitor and implement ESG targets of the Company and review its adequacy

(2)

To keep the board of directors informed about the nature and content of its discussions, recommendations, and
actions to be taken.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

118 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

(3)

To facilitate reporting of ESG-related matters in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report as may be
statutorily required.

(4)

To perform such functions or duties as may be prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI Listing Regulations,
and any other applicable laws from time to time and discharge such other functions as may be specifically delegated
to the Committee by the Board from time to time.

(5)

The ESG Committee of Directors shall be vested with the following powers:

(6)

(a)

The Committee shall have the authority to scrutinize programs and initiatives to ensure transparency and
oversee the implementation of programs/initiatives across the Company.

(b)

Obtain external legal or other independent professional advice, whenever necessary.

The ESG Committee shall:
(a)

oversee the effectiveness of sustainability programs and provide inputs related to matters of ESG and
corporate responsibility.

(b)

review and provide inputs on sustainability goals.

(c)

advise on the Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report and any other issue-specific reports (if any) prior
to reporting to the Board.

(d)

consider and recommend to the Board positioning on relevant emerging sustainability issues.

(e)

review and approve the Sustainability roadmap.

(f)

provide direction and oversight to the internal sustainability function.

The Committee was chaired by Ms. Nishi Vasudeva – Independent Director. Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel,
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to the Committee. During the financial year under review, one
meeting was held on May 26, 2022.
The composition of the ESG Committee as of March 31, 2023, and the attendance of members at the meeting held during
the financial year 2022-23 are as follows:

10.

Members of the Committee

Designation

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

No. of meetings
Held

Attended

Chairperson, Independent Director

1

1

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Independent Director

1

1

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

Non-Executive Non-Independent Director

1

1

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and CEO

1

1

Details of Other Committee Meetings and Membership:
•

Listing Committee for Listing of Company: As the Listing process was completed in March 2020, no more
meetings were required to be convened.

•

Committee of Independent Directors for Open offer: As the Open offer process was completed in September
2020, no more meetings were required to be convened.

•

Committee of Independent Directors for an annual evaluation: During the financial year, one meeting was held
on May 26, 2022.

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel & Company Secretary acted as the Secretary to the Committee of Independent
Directors for annual evaluation.
The Composition of the Committee of Independent Directors and Attendance was as follows:

11.

No. of meetings

Members of the Committee

Designation

Held

Attended

Mr. Mukesh Butani

Chairman, Independent Director

1

1

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Independent Director

1

1

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

Independent Director

1

1

Subsidiary Company:
The Company did not have any subsidiaries during the period under review. Hence, the requirement of formulating a
specific policy on dealing with material subsidiaries does not arise.
Policy for Material Subsidiary:
The policy on material subsidiaries is not applicable as the Company does not have any Subsidiaries as of reporting date.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

12.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 119

Managing Director (MD) & Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Certification:
As required under Regulation 17 read with Part B of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations, the MD and CFO certification
on the Financial Statements, the Cash Flow Statement, and the Internal Control Systems for financial reporting has been
obtained from Mr. Nuguri Venu, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Ajay Singh, Chief Financial Officer.
The said certificate is annexed as Annexure 1 to this report.

13.

General Body Meetings:
a.

Annual General Meeting:
The Annual General Meetings of the Company were held through Video Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio Visual
Means (“OAVM”) at the registered office of the Company. Details of the last three AGMs held are as below:
Financial Year

No. of
AGM

Day & Date

Time
(IST)

Special Resolutions passed
Re-appointment of Mr. Mukesh Hari Butani (DIN: 01452839) as an
Independent Director of the Company.

2021-2022
(Jan 2021 - Mar 2022)

3rd

Friday,
July 22, 2022

11:00 am

Re-appointment of Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (DIN: 06629992) as an
Independent Director of the Company.
Re-appointment of Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) as an
Independent Director of the Company.

b.

2020
(Jan 2020 - Dec 2020)

2nd

Thursday,
May 27, 2021

11:00 am

Borrowing money in excess of the prescribed limit as per the
Companies Act, 2013

2019
(Jan 2019 - Dec 2019)

1st

Thursday,
August 13, 2020

11:00 am

--

Extraordinary General Meeting:
There were no extraordinary general meetings held during the year.

c.

Postal Ballot:
No special resolution was passed through the postal ballot during previous year under report. Accordingly, details
relating to the postal ballot are not applicable.

14.

Means of Communication:
a.

Financial Results:
The quarterly/ half-yearly/ annual financial results are filed with stock exchanges and displayed on stock exchange
websites. The results are also made available on Company’s website. The results are published in Financial Express
(English newspaper – all India edition) and Vijaya Karnataka (Regional Newspaper).

b.

Website:
The financial results and the official news releases are also placed on the Company’s website at:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en.
The Company has a dedicated e-mail ID: investors@hitachienergy.com in the Secretarial Department for providing
necessary information/ assistance to the investors.

c.

Press Releases and Analysts/Investors’ Presentations:
In addition to the above, after announcement of results, the Company holds conference call with investors
/ analysts. The transcript of the said conference call if any, is uploaded on the Company’s website at:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en

d.

Annual Report:
Annual Report containing audited standalone financial statements together with Board’s Report, Auditors’ Report
and other reports/ information are circulated to members entitled thereto and is also made available on the Company
website at https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/general-meetings#annual-report.
The Indicative Calendar of Events for the Financial Year 2022-23 (April 01, 2022, to March 31, 2023) is as follows:
First Quarter financial results

July 2023

Second Quarter financial results

November 2023

Third Quarter financial results

February 2024

Fourth quarter financial results

May 2024

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

120 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

In terms of the circular issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, as a Green Initiative and pursuant to Section 101
and Section 136 of the Act, read with relevant Companies (Management and Administration Rules), 2014, and
Regulation 36 of SEBI (Listing Obligation Disclosures Requirement) Regulation, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”),
soft copy of the Notice and the Board’s Report for the financial year 2022-23 would be circulated to the respective
e-mail IDs registered and available in Company’s records, wherever available. Members of the Company, who have
registered their email address, are entitled to receive such communication in physical form upon request only. For
members whose e-mail ids are not available, the physical copy has been sent by permitted mode.
15.

General Shareholder Information:
a.

Annual General Meeting:
Corporate Identity Number (CIN)

L31904KA2019PLC121597

Day, Date, and Time

Thursday, August 17, 2023 at 11:00 a.m.

Venue/ Mode

The Company is conducting meeting through Video Conferencing (‘VC’)/ Other Audio-Visual Means
(‘OAVM’) pursuant to the MCA circulars and SEBI Circulars, please refer to the Notice of the AGM

Financial year

April 01, 2022 to March 31, 2023

Date of Book Closure

The Company’s Register of Members and Share Transfer Books will remain closed for the purpose of
the Annual General Meeting from August 11, 2023, to August 17, 2023 (both days inclusive).

As required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard 2, particulars of
Directors seeking appointment/re-appointment at this AGM are given in the Annexure to the Notice convening AGM.
b.

Dividend Payment Date:
The dividend, as recommended by the Board of Directors, if declared at the ensuing Annual General Meeting will
be paid on and from August 18, 2023, to those Shareohlders whose names appear on the Company’s Register of
Members as on Thursday, August 10, 2023.

c.

Listing on Stock Exchanges:
The equity shares of the Company are currently listed with BSE Limited (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of
India Limited (NSE). The Company has paid to date, the appropriate listing fee to both stock exchanges.

d.

Name & Address of each stock exchange(s) at which the Company’s securities are listed:
BSE Limited (BSE),
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street,
Mumbai 400 001.

e.

Stock Code for Equity Shares:
NSE
BSE
ISIN

f.

National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE),
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Plot No. C/1, G Block, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E),
Mumbai 400 051

POWERINDIA
543187
INE07Y701011

Market Price Data:
The market price data and volume of the Company’s shares traded in the BSE Limited and the National Stock
Exchange of India Limited, during the financial year 2022-23 were as follows:
Month

BSE-₹
High

BSE SENSEX
Low

High

Low

NSE-₹
High

NSE-NIFTY
Low

High

Low

Apr-22

3548

3110

60845

56009

3556

3112

18115

16825

May-22

3596

2751

57184

52632

3596

2750

17133

15736

Jun-22

3650

2817

56433

50921

3655

2851

16794

15183

Jul-22

3669

3003

57619

52094

3674

3002

17173

15511

Aug-22

3849

3190

60411

57367

3849

3194

17992

17155

Sep-22

3914

3356

60676

56147

3915

3355

18096

16748

Oct-22

3546

3147

60787

56683

3549

3145

18023

16856

Nov-22

3236

2846

63303

60425

3240

2840

18816

17959

Dec-22

3487

2912

63583

59754

3544

2912

18888

17774

Jan-23

3406

2966

61344

58699

3397

2966

18252

17406

Feb-23

3475

2906

61682

58796

3474

2906

18135

17255

Mar-23

3570

3084

60498

57085

3569

3084

17800

16828

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

g.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 121

Performance in Comparison to Broad-Based Indices viz., BSE Sensex and NSE Nifty:
POWERINDIA Share Price movement v/s BSE Sensex
April 01, 2022 - March 31, 2023
63100
3744
60000

59537

3518

4000

60747

60841

3480

S&P BSE SENSEX

55566

58992

3337

3224

3142
53019

3600
3400

57427
3140

3800
58962

57570

57061

55000

59550

3166

3324

3340

3101

3000

2952

50000

3200

2800
2600

45000

2400
2200

Hitachi Energy India Share price

65000

2000

40000
May-22

Apr-22

Jun-22

Jul-22

Aug-22

Sep-22

Oct-22

BSE-Sensex

Nov-22

Dec-22

Jan-23

Feb-23

Mar-23

Hitachi Energy India Share Price

POWERINDIA Share Price movement v/s NSE Nifty
April 01, 2022 - March 31, 2023
3489

18500
3152

3149

17759

S&P BSE SENSEX

2953
3164

3327

3343

3104

3000

17662
17304

17094

16585

3500

18105

17158

17103

17000

4000
3347

18012

3225

18000
17500

18758

3744
3530

17360

2500
2000

16500
16000

1500
15780

15500

1000
15000
500

14500

0

14000
Apr-22

May-22

Jun-22

Jul-22

Aug-22

Sep-22

Oct-22

NSE-Nifty

h.

Hitachi Energy India Share price

19000

Nov-22

Dec-22

Jan-23

Feb-23

Mar-23

Hitachi Energy India Share Price

Address for Correspondence:
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents:
KFin Technologies Limited
Unit: Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Serilingampally Mandal,
Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana
Phone No. 1- 800-309-4001
e-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: www.kfintech.com
Name, designation & address of Compliance Officer:
Contact Person

Address

Contact details

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda,
General Counsel, Company
Secretary & Compliance Officer

Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited)

Phone No: 080 68473700

Registered Office Address: 8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560 092

Corporate Secretarial e-mail ID:
investors@hitachienergy.com
Corporate Website:
https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en

122 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

i.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Share Transfer System:
To enhance the ease of dealing in securities markets by investors, SEBI has mandated that listed companies
shall henceforth issue the securities in dematerialized form only (vide Gazette Notification no. SEBI/LADNRO/
GN/2022/66 dated January 24, 2022) while processing the service request mentioned in the above notification (viz.,
Issue of duplicate securities certificate, Claim from Unclaimed Suspense Account, Transmission, Transposition,
etc). The transmission or transposition of shares is being processed by the Registrar and Share Transfer Agents and
approved by the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee. In order to expedite the process, the Board of Directors
has also delegated the authority jointly to any two of the Managing Director (MD), Chief Financial Officer and the
General Counsel, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer to approve share transmission, transposition, deletion
of a name, etc., of shares and accordingly, the same is being approved as per the request received and the report
is placed for noting before the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
Further, SEBI vide its circular dated November 03, 2021 has introduced common and simplified norms for processing
any service request received from the shareholder related to furnishing PAN, KYC details, and Nomination by the
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents (“RTA”):
1.

Electronic interface for processing investor’s queries, complaints and service request

2.

Mandatory furnishing of PAN, KYC details and Nomination by holders of physical securities

3.

Freezing of folios without valid PAN, KYC details and Nomination

4.

Compulsory linking of PAN and Aadhaar by all holders of physical securities

During the year under review, in December 2022, a request letter was sent to all those Shareholders whose PAN and
KYC details were not updated in the records of the Company and/ or Registrar and Transfer Agent. Communication
was sent through registered post to all those Shareholders wherein it was requested to update the required details
in line with the aforesaid SEBI circular.
SEBI vide its Circular dated January 25, 2022, has made it mandatory for compulsory credit of shares in demat form
in case of the request processed for the issue of duplicate shares, claim from Unclaimed suspense account, renewal/
exchange of securities certificate, endorsement, Sub - division / Splitting of securities certificate, Consolidation of
securities certificates/ folios, share transfer, share transmission, share transposition, issue of duplicate shares.
Hence, the Members holding shares in physical form are requested to consider converting their holdings in a
dematerialized form. The Members who are desirous to convert their physical holdings into dematerialized form,
may contact the Depository Participant of their choice. The request for share transfer, transmission, transposition of
shares, and deletion of name are being processed by the Registrar and Share Transfer Agents, and approved by the
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
The following compliances pertain to share transfers, grievances, etc.:
•

Pursuant to Regulation 7(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, certificates are filed with the stock exchanges
on yearly basis by the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer of the Company and the representative
of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent for maintenance of an appropriate share transfer facility. For the
previous financial period 2021-22, the Company filed this certificate on half yearly basis and the provision was
amended w.e.f. May 05, 2021 and half-yearly compliance was changed to yearly compliance. For the Financial
year March 31, 2023, the Company has filed this certificate within the prescribed time limit.

•

Pursuant to Regulation 13 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a statement on pending investor complaints is
filed with the stock exchanges and placed before the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and Board of
Directors on a quarterly basis.

•

Pursuant to Regulation 39(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, information regarding the loss of share certificates
and the issue of duplicate certificates, are submitted to the stock exchanges within 2 days of the Company
receiving the information.

•

Pursuant to Regulation 40(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company obtained the yearly certificate
from a Practicing Company Secretary certifying that, the RTA has issued all share certificates within 30 days
of the date of lodgment for transfer, subdivision, consolidation, renewal, exchange or endorsement of calls/
allotment monies and this certificate is simultaneously filed with the Indian Stock Exchanges pursuant to
Regulation 40(10) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. For the previous financial period 2021-22, the Company
has filed this certificate on half yearly basis and the provision was amended w.e.f. May 05, 2021, and the
half-yearly compliance was changed to yearly compliance. For the Financial year ended March 31, 2023, the
Company has filed this certificate within the prescribed time limit.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 123

In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, securities can be transferred only in
dematerialized form w.e.f. 1 April 2019, except in case of request received for transmission or transposition of
securities. Further w.e.f. January 01, 2022, the securities can be credited only in demat form after completion
of the process of request for deletion of a name, share transfer, transmission, and transposition of shares.
The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialized form. Members holding shares in physical
form are requested to consider converting their holdings to dematerialized form.
j.

Shareholding Pattern:
Shareholding

March 31, 2023

S. No.

Description

Total Shares

% Equity

Total Shares

% Equity

1

Mutual Funds

11,77,458

2.78

9,33,017

2.20

2

Foreign Portfolio – Corp

20,36,492

4.81

NIL

0.00

3

Foreign Institutional Investors

NIL

0.00

19,96,919

4.71
0.01

4

Trusts

3,309

0.01

3,993

5

Alternative Investment Fund

1,98,284

0.47

NIL

0.00

6

Resident Individuals

42,79,164

10.10

49,11,721

11.59

7

Non-Resident Indians

92,274

0.22

67,828

0.16

8

Clearing Members

1,422

0.00

10,525

0.02

9

Indian Financial Institutions

369

0.00

NIL

0.00

10

Banks

1,653

0.00

2,022

0.00

11

Qualified Institutional Buyer

19,61,453

4.63

19,63,428

4.63

12

Foreign Promoter Bodies Corporate - Promoter
and Promoter group

3,17,86,256

75.00

3,17,86,256

75.00

13

Foreign Bank

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

14

Non-Resident Indian
Non-Repatriable

1,22,905

0.29

1,09,552

0.26

15

Bodies Corporates

4,07,331

0.96

4,88,250

1.15

16

NBFC

9,892

0.02

NIL

0.00

17

Directors and their relatives

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

18

IEPF

1,07,190

0.25

1,07,421

0.25

19

HUF

1,95,480

0.46

NIL

0.00

20

Foreign Nationals

743

0.00

743

0.00

21

Foreign Portfolio Investors

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

4,23,81,675

4,23,81,675

4,23,81,675

100.00

Total

k.

Distribution of Shareholding (as on March 31, 2023):
Category

No. of Shareholders

No. of Shares held

% of equity capital

1 – 5,000

63,938

38,01,295

8.97

5,001 – 10,000

91

3,17,777

0.75

10,001 – 50,000

78

8,24,198

1.94

50,001 – 100,000

12

4,31,819

1.02

100,001 and above

25

3,70,06,586

87.32

64,144

4,23,81,675

100.00

Total

l.

March 31, 2022

Dematerialization of Shares and Liquidity:
The equity shares of the Company are available under the dematerialized form with National Securities Depository
Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
The Company’s equity shares are compulsorily traded in the dematerialized form.
As on March 31, 2023, out of 4,23,81,675 equity shares of the Company, 4,21,22,299 equity shares have been
dematerialized representing 99.39 percent. The Company confirms that the promoters’ holdings were continued to
be in electronic form and the same is in line with the circulars issued by SEBI.
Members who are still holding shares in physical form are requested to dematerialize their shares at the earliest, this
will be more advantageous to deal in securities. For queries/ clarification/ assistance, shareholders are advised to
approach the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

124 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

m.

Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any Convertible Instruments, Conversion Date and Likely Impact on
Equity:
The Company has not issued GDRs, ADRs or any other Convertible Instruments and as such, there is no impact on
the equity share capital of the Company.

n.

Commodity Price Risk / Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging activities:
The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk on account of import and export transactions entered and it is
exposed to commodity price risk on account of procurement of base metals (Copper and Aluminum) to be used in
manufacturing activities. Details of commodities exposure during the year under review are provided below:
a.

Total Exposure of the Company to commodities is c 4,51,45,23,935 .

b.

Exposure of the Company to various commodities:

Commodity
Name

c.

Exposure in ₹ towards the Exposure in Quantity terms toward
particular commodity
the particular commodity

% of such exposure hedged through commodity
derivatives
Domestic market

International market

OTC

Exchange

OTC

Exchange

Total

Copper

4,38,54,17,981

6381 MT

-

-

13%

-

13%

Aluminum

12,91,05,954

508 MT

-

-

5%

-

5%

Commodity risks faced by the Company during the financial year and how they have been managed:
The Company is a sizable user of various commodities which exposes it to price risk on account of the
procurement of commodities. The Company is proactively mitigating these risks by entering into commensurate
hedging transactions with banks as per applicable guidelines and group risk management instructions.

o.

Plant Locations:
The plant locations of the Company are as detailed below:
Particulars of Plant Location

State

Plot No. 4A, 5 & 6, 2nd Phase, Peenya Industrial Area, Peenya, Bengaluru- 560058
Sy No.30, Thammashettihalli Village, Kasaba Hobli, Dodaballapura Taluk, Bengaluru Rural -562163

Karnataka

Mysore-Ooty Road, Thandavapura, Mysore - 571302
Sy No. 211, Halol-Champaner Road, Panchmahal P.O. Chandrapura, Halol-391520
Plot No. 25 & 26, Alindra Manjusar, Savli - GIDC, Vadodara- 391775
Plot No. 42 & 43, Alindra Manjusar, Savli - GIDC, Vadodara- 391775

Gujarat

Maneja, Vadodara-390013
Plot No. 3, Mahindra World City Industrial Park, Phase-V, 1st Cross Road, 8th Avenue, Etchankaranai Village, Chengalpattu
Taluk, Kanchipuram- 603004

p.

Tamil Nadu

Code of Conduct:
As required under Listing Regulations, the Company has in place a Code of Conduct applicable to the Board
Members as well as the Senior Management Personnel and the same has been hosted on the Company’s website.
Consequent to change in name of the Company, the revised Code of conduct was approved by NRC Committee
in the meeting held on May 26, 2022, and by Board of Directors at their meeting held on May 26, 2022 (adjourned
and concluded on May 27, 2022). All the Board Members and the Senior Management Personnel have affirmed
compliance with the Code of Conduct, as on March 31, 2023. A certificate to that effect is annexed as Annexure 2.
In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015,
the Company has, inter-alia, adopted a Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading Code of Practices and
Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (Code) duly revised on February 09, 2022.
As per the above Code, Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda is the Compliance Officer and Mr. Ajay Singh, Chief Financial
Officer is the Chief Investor Relations Officer.

q.

Company affirms that all the requirements under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 are complied with.

r.

Debenture Trustees - Not Applicable.

s.

Details of utilization of funds raised through preferential allotment or qualified institutions placement as specified
under Regulation 32 (7A)- Not applicable.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 125

t.

Where the board had not accepted any recommendation of any committee of the board, which is mandatorily
required in the relevant financial year, the same to be disclosed along with reasons thereof - Not applicable.

u.

Total fees for all services paid by the listed entity and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the statutory
auditor and all entities in the network firm / network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part:
During the financial year under review, the Company did not have any subsidiaries. Based on the recommendation
of the Audit Committee and Board of Directors, Shareholders approved the appointment of M/s. S.R. Batliboi &
Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants (Registration No. 101049W/E300004) as the Statutory Auditors of the
Company commencing from the conclusion of the 1st Annual General Meeting to hold such office for a period
of 5 years till the conclusion of 6th Annual General Meeting. Remuneration of ₹ 1,34,37,500 (Rupees One Crores
Thirty Four Lakhs Thirty Seven Thousand Five Hundred only) for the financial year 2022-23 (April 01, 2022 to March
31, 2023) plus applicable taxes in connection with the statutory audit of the Company and related services, was
approved by the Board of Directors of the Company based on the recommendation of Audit Committee.
The details of the payment to be made for the financial year 2022-23 are as follows:
Amount in ₹ (in Lakhs)
Statutory audit fees (inclusive of out-of-pocket expenses)

51.60

Tax audit fees

29.02

Limited review fees

38.70

Group audit fees

15.05

Other certification fees

15.00

Reimbursement of expenses
Total

3.00
152.37

v.

Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, 2013:

a.

number of complaints filed during the financial year: NIL

b.

number of complaints disposed of during the financial year: NIL

c.

number of complaints pending as on the end of the financial year: NIL
Further, the Company has a web portal known as “Hitachi Energy Ethics Web Portal” wherein employees can
report/ raise the workplace harassment concerns/ related incidents. The complaints as received via this Portal was
redressed and brought to the attention of the Audit Committee of the Board from time to time.

w.

The disclosures of the compliance with corporate governance requirements specified in regulations 17 to 27 and
clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 shall be made in the section on corporate governance of the
annual report.
The Board hereby confirms that it has complied with all the corporate governance requirements specified in
regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) 2015.

x.

Disclosures with respect to Demat Suspense Account / Unclaimed Suspense Account:
Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, 799 Equity shares of ₹ 2 each of Hitachi Energy India Limited (formerly
known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited) was credited into the demat account of Unclaimed
suspense account on December 24, 2019. There was no change in the shareholding of the Unclaimed suspense
account during the financial year 2022-23.
It may be noted that pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement (Demerger), the Equity shares in demat form were
automatically credited into the Unclaimed shares account and Investors Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)
Account and the voting rights thereon have been frozen till the shares are claimed by the rightful owners.
Details are given below:
Shares credited to IEPF account: 1,07,421 Equity shares were allotted on December 24, 2019.
During the financial year under review, out of 1,07,421 Equity shares, the claim for 231 Equity shares was approved
by the IEPF Authorities as claimed by the individual shareholders and approved by the Company from time to time.
Balance shares remaining in IEPF account as on March 31, 2023 is 1,07,190.
Shares credited to Unclaimed Suspense account on December 24, 2019:

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

126 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

y.

The aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying
at the beginning of the year.

799 Equity shares - 6 Shareholders

The number of shareholders who approached the issuer for the transfer of shares from the
suspense account during the year.

NIL

Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from the suspense account during the
year.

NIL

The aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying
at the end of the year.

799 Equity shares - 6 Shareholders

Disclosure by the Listed Entity and its Subsidiaries of ‘Loans and Advances in the Nature of Loans to Firms/
Companies in which Directors are Interested by Name and Amount:
The Company does not have any subsidiaries. There are no Companies in which Directors are interested and to
which Company or group Company has granted the loan.

z.

Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report:
A Company Secretary-in-Practice carries out a Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit on a quarterly basis, as per
Regulation 76 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018
read with SEBI Circular No. D&CC / FITTC/Cir- 16/2002 dated 31 December 2002, to reconcile the total admitted
capital with depositories viz National Securities Depository Limited (‘NSDL’) and Central Depository Services
Limited (‘CDSL’) and the total issued and listed capital. The audit confirms that the total issued/ paid up capital is
in agreement with the aggregate of the total number of shares in physical form and the total number of shares in
dematerialized form (held with NSDL and CDSL).

aa.

Disclosures:
i)

Disclosures on Materially Significant Related Party Transactions:
There was no materially significant related party transaction during the financial year having potential conflict
with the interests of the Company. Transactions with related parties, as per requirements of Indian Accounting
Standard 24, are disclosed in the notes to accounts annexed to the financial statements. Further, the Company
has not entered into any transaction of a material nature with the Promoters, subsidiaries of Promoters,
Directors or their relatives, etc. that may have potential conflict with the interests of the Company.
All the transactions with related parties were in the ordinary course of business and on an arm’s length
basis, except transactions, which are disclosed in the Board’s Report. In terms of Regulation 23 of Listing
Regulations, the Company obtains prior approval of the Audit Committee for entering into any transaction with
related parties. As per SEBI Circular dated November 09, 2021, the relevant policy has been revised in the
Audit Committee at the Meeting held on May 27, 2022 and approved by the Board of Directors at their Meeting
held on May 26, 2022 (adjourned and concluded on May 27, 2022). In line with SEBI Listing Regulations,
the revised policy contains updated threshold limits for obtaining approval of the Audit Committee, Board of
Directors, and shareholders including that for material modifications as may be applicable from time to time.
Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions can be viewed in the Company’s website. The link for the
same is: https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance#policies

ii)

Details of Non-Compliance by the Company, Penalties and Strictures Imposed on the Company by the
Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any Statutory Authorities, on any matter related to Capital Markets during
the Last Three Years:
During last three years, neither any penalty nor any stricture has been passed by SEBI, Stock Exchanges or
any other Statutory Authority on matters relating to capital markets.

iii)

Whistle Blower Policy and affirmation that no personnel has been denied access to the Audit Committee:
The Company has adopted Whistle Blower Policy which is a mechanism for directors and employees to report
concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Code of Conduct/ Business
Ethics, leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI) and related matters. No personnel has been
denied access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, for making the complaint on any Integrity issue.
The updated policy was approved by the Audit Committee and Board of Directors at their meeting held on
February 09, 2022. The updated Whistle Blower Policy can be viewed on the Company’s website at: https://
www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/about-us/integrity/reporting-channels/whistleblower-protection-policy

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

iv)

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 127

Details of Compliance with Mandatory Requirements and Adoption of the Non-Mandatory Requirements
under the Listing Regulations:
During the financial year 2022-23, the Company has fully complied with the mandatory requirements as
stipulated in Listing Regulations.
The Company has adopted item E of the non-mandatory requirements as provided in Part E of Schedule II to
the Listing Regulations which are discretionary requirements.

v)

vi)

Discretionary Requirements:
•

The Company does not maintain a separate office for the Non-Executive Chairman.

•

The quarterly financial results are published in newspapers of wide circulation and not sent to individual
shareholders. Further the financial results are available on the website of the Company and of Stock
Exchanges where the shares of the Company are listed i.e., BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange
of India Limited.

•

The Auditors’ opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified.

•

The Board of Directors of Hitachi Energy India Limited has a Non-Executive Chairman i.e. Mr. Achim
Michael Braun and Mr. Nuguri Venu is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
There is no relationship between the persons occupying these posts.

•

Internal Auditor has been appointed and reports directly to the Audit Committee

Other requirements as stipulated in SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 2015 and
for the Corporate Governance Report:
Confirmation from Board regarding Independent Directors’ Criteria:
The Board of Directors confirms that in their opinion, the Independent Directors fulfill the conditions specified
under the Companies Act 2013 and of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 2015 and are
independent of the management.
Credit Ratings:
The Company does not have any debt instrument, fixed deposit programme or scheme or proposal for the
mobilization of funds. However, for short-term borrowings, the Company obtained a credit rating. The details
are as follows:
As on July 8, 2022, CRISIL Ratings has reaffirmed its ‘CRISIL AAA/Stable/CRISIL A1+’ ratings to the bank
facilities of the Company as follows:

vii)

Total Bank Loan Facilities Rated

₹ 6000 Crores (enhanced from ₹ 5000 Crores)

Long Term Rating

CRISIL AAA/Stable (Reaffirmed)

Short Term Rating

CRISIL A1+ (Reaffirmed)

Certificate from a Company Secretary in Practice that none of the directors on the board of the Company has
been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of the Company by the Board /
Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority:
Appended as Annexure 3
By order of the Board
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Achim Michael Braun

Place: Bengaluru

Chairman

Date: May 24, 2023

DIN: 08596097

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

128 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

MD/CFO CERTIFICATE
Annexure 1
To,
The Board of Directors,
Hitachi Energy India Limited
(formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
We certify that:
A.

We have reviewed the financial statements and the cash flow statement of Hitachi Energy India Limited (formerly known as
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited) for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, and that to the best of our
knowledge and belief:
1.

These statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material facts or contain statements
that might be misleading.

2.

These statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.

B.

To the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the period are fraudulent,
illegal or violates the code of conduct of the Company.

C.

We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls over financial reporting and that we have
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company over financial reporting, and we have disclosed
to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls over financial
reporting, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken, propose to take, to rectify these deficiencies. In our
opinion, there are adequate internal controls over financial reporting.

D.

We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee that there are:

E.

1.

No significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the period.

2.

No significant changes in the accounting policies; and

3.

No instances of fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement there in, if any, of the management or
an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control systems over financial reporting.

We affirm that we have not denied any personnel access to the Audit Committee of the Company, and we have provided
protection to whistle-blowers from unfair termination and other unfair or prejudicial employment practices.
We further declare that all Board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of
Conduct and Ethics for the period covered by this report.
Bengaluru
May 24, 2023

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director and CEO
(DIN: 07032076)

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Annexure 2
Declaration by the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer under Listing Regulations regarding compliance with
Business Conduct Guidelines (Code of Conduct)
In accordance with the Listing Regulations, I hereby confirm that all the Directors and the Senior Management Personnel of the
Company have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them, for the financial year ended March 31, 2023.
By order of the Board
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Nuguri Venu
Place: Bengaluru

Managing Director and CEO

Date: May 24, 2023

DIN: 07032076

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 129

Annexure 3
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To,
The Members of
HITACHI ENERGY INDIA LIMITED
8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560092
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of HITACHI
ENERGY INDIA LIMITED having CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597 and having registered office at 8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for
the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the
Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number
(DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its
officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ended
on March 31, 2023 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
S. No.

Name of Director

1

Mr. Mukesh Hari Butani

01452839

DIN

Date of appointment in Company
24/12/2019

2

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

03016991

24/12/2019

3

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

06629992

24/12/2019

4

Mr. Nuguri Venu

07032076

02/12/2019

5

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

08596097

25/02/2021

6

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka

08598862

25/02/2021

Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an
assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has
conducted the affairs of the Company.

For V. Sreedharan & Associates
Company Secretaries
(Pradeep B. Kulkarni)
Partner
F.C.S.7260; C.P No.7835
Place: Bengaluru

UDIN: F007260E000368170

Date: May 24, 2023

Peer Review Certificate No. 589/2019

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

130 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
To,
The Members of HITACHI ENERGY INDIA LIMITED,
Corporate Identity No

: L31904KA2019PLC121597

Nominal Capital

: ₹ 10 Crores

We have examined all the relevant records of HITACHI ENERGY INDIA LIMITED for the purpose of certifying compliance of the
conditions of the Corporate Governance under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
for the financial year ended March 31, 2023. We have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our
knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of certification.
The compliance of conditions of corporate governance is the responsibility of the Management. Our examination was limited
to the procedure and implementation process adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of the
corporate governance.
This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which
the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations and information furnished to us, we
certify that the Company has complied with all the mandatory conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the said
Regulations. As regards Discretionary Requirements specified in Part E of Schedule II of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 the Company has complied with item C, D and E.

For V. Sreedharan & Associates
Company Secretaries
(Pradeep B. Kulkarni)
Partner
F.C.S.7260; C.P No.7835
Place: Bengaluru

UDIN: F007260E000368170

Date: May 24, 2023

Peer Review Certificate No. 589/2019

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 131

Annexure – D to Board’s Report
FORM MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2023
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401,
Kodigehalli, Main Road, Bangalore -560092.
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good
corporate practices by Hitachi Energy India Limited (Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
(hereinafter called the “Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for
evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained
by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during
the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering
the financial year ended on 31st March 2023 (April 01, 2022 to March 31, 2023), complied with the statutory provisions listed
hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed, and other records maintained by the Company for
the financial year ended on 31st March 2023, according to the provisions of:
i.

The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Rules made thereunder and the relevant provisions of The Companies Act, 1956;

ii.

The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the Rules made thereunder;

iii.

The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Byelaws framed thereunder;

iv.

Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings.

v.

The Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):
(a)

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;

(b)

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;

(c)

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 2009; –
Not Applicable as the Company did not issue any security during the financial year under review.

(d)

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Benefits Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations,
2021; - Not Applicable as the Company does not have Employee Stock Option Scheme for its employees;

(e)

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 and Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021; – Not applicable
as the Company has not issued any debt securities during the financial year under review;

(f)

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993
regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client; - Not applicable as the Company is not registered as Registrar
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent during the financial year under review;

132 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

vi.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

(g)

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; – Not applicable as the
Company has not delisted its equity shares from any stock exchange during the financial year under review; and

(h)

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; - Not Applicable as the
Company has not done any buyback of its securities during the financial year under review.

The Company has identified the following laws as specifically applicable to the Company:
1.

Factories Act, 1948 & the Central Rules or concerned State Rules, made thereunder.

2.

Boilers Act, 1923 & Rules made thereunder.

3.

Electricity Act, 2003.

4.

Indian Explosives Act, 1884.

5.

Gas Cylinder Rules, 1981 (under Indian Explosives Act).

6.

Static and Mobile Pressure Vessels (Unfired) Rules, 1981 (under Indian Explosives Act).

7.

Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.

8.

The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 & Central Rules/ concerned State Rules.

9.

The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 & Central Rules/ concerned State Rules

10.

Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989.

11.

Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989.

12.

The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules.

13.

The Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 & EPF, FPF Schemes.

14.

The Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules.

15.

The Minimum Wages Act, 1948 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules/ Notification of Minimum Wages
applicable to various class of industries/ Trade.

16.

The Payment of Wages Act, 1936 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules, if any.

17.

The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules, if any.

18.

The Payment of Gratuity Act & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules, if any.

19.

The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 & its Rules.

20.

The Equal Remuneration Act, 1976.

21.

The Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 & its Rules.

22.

The Apprentices Act, 1961 & its Rules.

23.

The Employment Exchange (Compulsory Notification of Vacancies) Act, 1959.

24.

The Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923.

25.

The Industrial Dispute Act, 1947.

26.

The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.

27.

The Information Technology Act, 2000.

We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
(i)

Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI)

(ii)

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015;

During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,
Standards, etc. mentioned above.
We further report that:The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive
Directors and Independent Directors. There were no changes in the composition of the Board of Directors during the
period under review.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 133

Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent
at least seven days in advance. Further, a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on
the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
As per the minutes of the meetings, the decisions of the Board were taken unanimously.
We further report that based on review of compliance mechanism established by the Company and on the basis of
the Compliance Certificate(s) issued by the Company Secretary and taken on record by the Board of Directors at their
meeting(s), we are of the opinion that the management has adequate systems and processes commensurate with its size
and operations, to monitor and ensure compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
As informed, the Company has responded to notices for demands, claims, penalties etc. levied by various statutory /
regulatory authorities and initiated actions for corrective measures, wherever necessary.
There were no other specific events/actions in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines etc.,
having a major bearing on the Company’s affairs.
For BMP & Co. LLP
Company Secretaries
Pramod S M
Partner
Place: Bengaluru

FCS No: 7834 C.P No: 13784

Date: May 24, 2023

UDIN: F007834E000368458

This report to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this
report.

‘Annexure A’
To,
The Members,
Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bangalore -560092
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1.

Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.

2.

We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the
correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts
are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, that we have we followed provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

3.

We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.

4.

Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations
and happening of events etc.

5.

The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, Rules, Regulations, standards is the responsibility
of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

134 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

6.

The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.

7.

We further report that, based on the information provided by the Company, its officers, authorised representatives during
the conduct of the audit and also on the review of quarterly compliance report by the respective departmental heads/
Company Secretary/Managing Director taken on record by the Board of the Company, in our opinion adequate systems
and process and control mechanism exist in the Company to monitor compliance with applicable general laws like labour
laws & Environment laws and Data protection policy.

8.

We further report that the Compliance by the Company of applicable Financial laws like Direct & Indirect tax laws has not
been reviewed in this audit since the same has been subject to review by the statutory financial audit and other designated
professionals.

For BMP & Co. LLP
Company Secretaries
(Pradeep B. Kulkarni)
Partner
Place: Bengaluru

FCS No: 7834 C.P No: 13784

Date: May 24, 2023

UDIN: F007834E000368458

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 135

Annexure – E to Board’s Report
FORM AOC-2
[Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred to in subsection (1) of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso thereto:Details of the contracts entered into with related parties during the financial year 2022-23 (April 01, 2022 to March 31, 2023):
1.

Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis: There were no contracts or arrangements, or transactions entered into during the financial year ended March 31, 2023,
which were not at arm’s length basis.

2.

Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis:
There were no contracts or arrangements, or transactions entered into during the financial year ended March 31, 2023,
which were material in nature and at an arm’s length basis. However, the Company has entered into following related party
transactions which were at arm’s length but not in the ordinary course of business:
Name(s) of the
related party and
nature of the
relationship

Nature of
contracts/
arrangements/
transactions

(a)

(b)

ABB India Limited
(INABB)

Duration
in month

Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or Date(s) of approval Amount (in
transactions including the value, if any.
by the Board, if any
₹ Crores)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

Availing of Power /
DG services

6

Arrangement for payment of electricity charges for
the shared factory locations pursuant to Scheme of
Arrangement

May 26, 2022
(Adjourned and
concluded on
May 27, 2022)

16.94

ABB Information
Systems Ltd.

Availing of IT
support service

12

IT Support Service Agreement entered with ABB
Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland
(CHGPL)

May 26, 2022
(Adjourned and
concluded on
May 27, 2022)

15.71

ABB PG Power
Grids Ltd.

Availing of IT
support service

12

IT Support Service Agreement entered with ABB PG
Power Grids Ltd., (CHPPG)

May 26, 2022
(Adjourned and
concluded on
May 27, 2022)

53.23

ABB Information
Systems Ltd.

Availing of IT
support service

12

Change due to a reduction in the amount of already
approved IT related services from ABB Information
Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland (CHGPL)

February 6, 2023

17.04

ABB PG Power
Grids Ltd.

Availing of IT
support service

12

Change due to an increase in the amount of
already approved certain IT related services from
ABB Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland
(CHGPL)

February 6, 2023

51.90

ABB India Limited

Stamp duty towards
Not
the transfer of
Applicable
assets/ title deeds

Payment towards 10% cess on stamp duty payment
towards transfer of assets/ title deed of Peenya
property of the Company pursuant to the Scheme of
Arrangement

July 22, 2022

0.44

ABB India Limited

Expenses for
bifurcation of
property card
(Khata)

Not
Applicable

The expense for bifurcation of property card (Khata)
of Peenya property of the Company

July 22, 2022

0.2

ABB India Limited

Expenses for
bifurcation of
property card
(Khata)

Not
Applicable

The expense for bifurcation of property card (Khata)
for Maneja property

July 22, 2022

0.2

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

136 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Name(s) of the
related party and
nature of the
relationship

Nature of
contracts/
arrangements/
transactions

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

ABB India Limited

Availing of Power /
DG services

6

Arrangement for payment of electricity charges for
the shared factory locations pursuant to Scheme of
Arrangement

November 4, 2022

16.94

Hitachi Energy
Holdings Ltd

Availing Global IS
Services/ IT Support
Services

12

Availing Global IS Services/ IT Support Services from
Hitachi Energy Holdings Ltd.

November 4, 2022

25.23

ABB India Limited

Real Estate
Expenses

Not
Applicable

Payment for real estate expenses arising consequent
to the Demerger of Power Grids business

Real Estate
Expenses

Not
Applicable

Reimbursement of amount paid to ABB India Limited
for real estate expenses arising consequent to the
Demerger of Power Grids business

November 4, 2022

16.13

Hitachi Energy Ltd

Duration
in month

Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or Date(s) of approval Amount (in
transactions including the value, if any.
by the Board, if any
₹ Crores)
(e)

(f)

Note:
All above related party transactions with ABB India Limited and other related parties which are not in the “ordinary course
of business”, were necessitated consequent to the Demerger of Power Grids Business during the year 2019.

By order of the Board
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Achim Michael Braun
Place: Bengaluru

Chairman

Date: May 24, 2023

DIN: 08596097

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 137

Annexure – F to Board’s Report
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES (CSR) ACTIVITIES
1.

Brief outline of the CSR policy of the Company:
Corporate Social Responsibility policy of Hitachi Energy India Limited (formerly known as ABB Power Products
and Systems India Limited)
Hitachi Energy India Limited (“the Company”) as a responsible Corporate entity strives to reach out to the wider community
to ensure the well-being of the needy as a part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”). The Company has always
believed in and contributed to society. Along with sustained economic performance, environmental and social stewardship
is also a key factor for holistic business growth and is internalized as an integral part of the Company’s strategy.
The Company views corporate social responsibility as a channel to further its cause of “bringing power to all by shaping the
future of sustainable energy”. The Company is committed to sustainable and inclusive development of the community’s
social capital through active engagement.
The Company has formulated a Policy for its CSR and also identified the following key areas for undertaking CSR activities:
•

Promote gender equality and empowering of women in the engineering work force
To promote gender equality by ensuring initiatives to empower / advancement of women and in the engineering work
force, thereby increasing diversity and inclusion.

•

Endorse education, employability & health care
To create necessary infrastructure and resources to enable the promotion of primary education among children and
impart vocational skills training to the youth, promoting health care including preventive health care.

•

Social impact projects
To collaborate with communities to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access to electricity in the
country, especially in rural areas for its development.

•

Support national disaster management and other government initiatives
To actively support national disaster management including relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities and
support in other initiatives for promoting, including preventive measures for health care systems, hygiene and sanitation.

•

Aid in sustainable development goals
To promote an ecosystem for sustainable development goals by encouraging the usage of indigenous, innovative
and sustainable solutions thereby aiding, developing, promoting, facilitating and undertaking testing of new
frontiers of science, technology, engineering, and environment in partnership with like-minded institutions,
incubators and sponsors.
The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy is available at the following link: https://www.hitachienergy.
com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance#policies

2.

3.

Composition of the CSR Committee:
No. of meetings of CSR Committee

Members of the Committee

Designation

Held

Attended

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Chairperson, Independent Director

4

4

Mr. Nuguri Venu

Managing Director and CEO

4

4

Mr. Achim Michael Braun

Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director

4

4

Provide the web-link where the Composition of the CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the
board are disclosed on the website of the Company:
Composition of CSR committee

https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/board-of-directors

CSR Policy

https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance#policies

CSR projects approved by the board

https://www.hitachienergy.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporategovernance#corporatesocial-responsibility--csr

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

138 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

4.

Provide the details of the Impact assessment of the CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8
of the companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the reports)
Not Applicable

5.

6.

Disclosures:
(a)

Average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5):- ₹ 212.49 Crores

(b)

Two percent of the average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5): ₹ 4.25 Crores for the financial year 2022-23

(c)

Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: NIL

(d)

Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: NIL

(e)

Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: ₹ 4.25 Crores for the financial year 2022-23.

Details:
(a)

Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): ₹ 1.63 Crores

(b)

Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: ₹ 0.1 Crore

(c)

Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NIL

(d)

Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: ₹ 1.63 Crores

(e)

CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Amount Unspent (in ₹)
Total Amount Spent for the
Financial Year (in ₹)

1,73,05,050

(f)

7.

Total Amount transferred to Unspent Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule
CSR account as per section 135(6)
VII as per the second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount

Date of transfer

Name of fund

Amount

Date of transfer

2,51,87,013

April 28, 2023

-

-

-

Excess amount for setoff, if any : NIL
S. No.

Particulars

Amount (₹)

(i)

Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)

4,25,10,463

(II)

Total amount spent for the financial year

1,73,05,050

(iii)

Excess amount spent for the financial year {(iii)-(i)}

-

(iv)

Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, if any

-

(v)

Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]

-

Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three financial years:
1

2

S. No.

Preceding FY

1

Financial period 2019 (February
19, 2019 to December 31, 2019)

2

3

3

Amount transferred
to Unspent CSR
Account under
sub-section (6) of
section 135 (in ₹)

4

5

6

7

8

Amount
transferred to a
Fund as specified Amount
Balance Amount
under Schedule remaining to
in Unspent CSR
Amount
be spent in Deficiency,
Account under Spent in the VII as per second
succeeding
if any
proviso to
subsection (6) of
Financial
Financial
(in ₹)
subsection
(5)
of
section 135
Year (in ₹)
Years
section 135, if any
(in ₹)
(in ₹)
Amount Date of
(in ₹) Transfer

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

FY2020 (January 01, 2020 to
December 31, 2020)

3,33,83,488

NIL

3,33,83,488

-

-

NIL

-

Financial period 2021-22
(January 01, 2021 to
March 31, 2022)

1,42,91,633

1,055

1,42,90,578

-

-

1,055 *

* The amount has been spent by the Company on May 12, 2023.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

8.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 139

Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent
in the Financial Year: NIL
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired:
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent
in the Financial Year:

S. No.

Short particulars of the property or
asset(s) [including complete address
and location of the property]

Pin code of
the property
or asset (s)

Date of
creation

Amount of
CSR spent

Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary
of the registered owner
CSR Registration
Number, if Applicable

Name

Registered
address

1

2

3

4

5

6.i

6.ii

6.iii

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/Municipal Corporation/ Gram
panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries)

9.

Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two percent of the average net profit as per section
135(5):
During the year under review the Company was required to spend ₹ 4.25 Crores, out of which the Company has spent
₹ 1.73 Crores and an amount of ₹ 2.52 Crores remain unutilized due to the work being incomplete/ not due for payment to
Vendors / service providers which includes multi-year projects. The Company has transferred the unutilized amount(s) to
a specified account in accordance with the Act and the same will be utilized and spent within the prescribed time limits.

By order of the Board
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Nuguri Venu

Akila Krishnakumar

Place: Bengaluru

Managing Director and CEO

Chairperson - CSR Committee

Date: May 24, 2023

(DIN:07032076)

(DIN:06629992)

140 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Annexure – G to Board’s Report
Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings and outgo.
Pursuant to provisions of Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
A.

Conservation of energy
1.

2.

3.

Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:
•

Switch over to PNG (Piped Natural Gas ) from HSD ( High Speed Diesel) completed for small power transformer,
traction and instrument transformer factories resulting in the reduction of CO2 emission approximately by 220T.

•

Power saving in lighting achieved by installing motion sensors in washrooms and meeting rooms. It has
resulted in energy saving by controlling the operation of lights in day hours.

•

Conventional lights with 24.2 kw of load were replaced by LED lights of 13.25 kw with saving of more than
39,000 kWh/annum

•

At gas insulated switchgear factory, replaced conventional and T5 fixtures with energy efficient Light Emitting
Diode light in offices. It has resulted in saving of more than 21,000 kWh. All upcoming infrastructure investment
are planned with installation of LED.

•

Completed Installation of 16 water meters in the water distribution network. This will support in mapping water
consumption pattern of factories and utilities including reduction in water wastages due to the leakages.

•

Digital water flow meters are installed and improved water consumption monitoring and controlling including
saving in energy. Specific water consumption in Maneja factory reduced by more than 4,500 kilo litres and
corresponding energy.

•

In Canteen, initiated and completed the collection of reject water from RO plant in separate water tank which
is further used for the washing of utensils, cleaning of floors and other misc. work.

•

In Traction factory, replaced the GI roof sheets by polycarbonate sheets which has resulted in energy saving
by switching of the lights in daytime - saving of more than 12,000 kilo-watt hours (kWh).

•

Maintained the power availability of Power distribution network more than 99 percent which has resulted in
reduction in HSD consumption and energy saving by reducing the reprocess time.

•

In GIS factory, installed VFDs in Air handling units to get reliability and efficiency of blowers along with energy
conservation resulting in saving of more than 55,000 kWh.

•

Maintained power factor 0.99 by Automatic Power Factor Control panel, thereby getting rebate in energy bill.

•

In Dry & Traction transformer factory, installed the Lighting Transformer in plant and office area light fixtures. It has
resulted in saving in energy as well as reduced the maintenance cost by stabilizing the voltage in lighting circuits.

•

Installed solar tubes on the factory roof resulting in improving lux level in factory area and saving in energy.

•

Installed HVLS (High volume low speed) fans which has resulted in removal of multiple industrial fans with
improved uniform cooling and saving energy of more than 500 kWh / annum.

•

Modified capacitor manufacturing process and made energy efficiency improvement in heating system which
resulted saving in energy and process time by occupying less space compared to earlier process. New heating
process consumes 40 percent less energy.

Steps taken by the Company for utilizing alternate sources of energy:
•

Achieved 100 percent fossil-free electricity in its own operations as part of Sustainability 2030 target of
becoming carbon-neutral in its own operations.

•

For achieving fossil free electricity, various steps were taken during the year such as installing solar roof
panels, switching electricity contracts to green tariffs, buying International Renewable Energy Certificates
(IRECs), and signing Power Purchase Agreements (PPA)

•

Started using PNG (Piped natural gas) instead of HSD (High Speed diesel).

•

Increased the capacity of solar installation in Maneja factory from 292 kW to 938 kW which will be commissioned
in the FY 2023-24.

The Capital Investment on energy conservation equipment:
•

Power factor improvement solutions

•

Solar PV installations

•

Smart energy and water meters

•

Equipment for using PNG (Piped Natural Gas ) in thermic fluid heater instead of HSD (High Speed Diesel)

•

Light Emitting Diode lighting and motion sensor system for lighting control

•

Energy efficient heating system in capacitor manufacturing process

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

B.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 141

Technology Absorption
1.

Technologies imported during the last three years
•

Transient Voltage Protection Technology for protection against switching surges.

•

Short Circuit testing of largest rated 7760 kVA Dry type Excitation transformer

•

Elliptical windings for 800kV UHVAC transformers

•

TrafostarLite design platform for 30.24MVA 220kV 1-ph Railway Trackside transformers and was short circuit testing

•

Touchless inspection of power transformers with TXplore – an inspection robot remotely operated without the
need to remove oil from transformer

•

Digital Transformer technologies on new and installed power transformers

•

400kV GIS Module Production technology

•

Technology for “V” type center break disconnector (145kV, 44kA STC rating)

•

Manufacturing of test switch type RTNA for automation products

•

In automation system business:
-

Synchro Phasors measurement and monitoring Systems

-

MPLS (Multiprotocol Label Switching) - Broadband Fiber optic communication system for power utility
& oil & gas sector applications

-

Network Manager SCADA for REMC

•

New UHVDC transformer manufacturing technology

•

Transformer digitalization with lab testing transformer

•

Dynamic Short Circuit test on 400kV 110MVA Station transformer at utility lab

•

Competency for Seismic, 3-D Dielectric and Electromagnetic studies

•

6.8 MVA 22/0.76 Aluminum Wound Excitation Transformer

•

3.5/4 MVA 33/27.5 Single Phase Aluminum Wound Transformer

•

145kV GIS (ELK04) bay and module production

•

Dead Tank Breakers (72.5kV and 145kV)

•

Hybrid PASS 145kV (MEB0)

•

Reliability centered maintenance Solutions (RelCare)

•

Prefabricated GIS Substation as an alternative to RCC Buildings

•

Base Solutions for Solar PV Skid

•

Building Information Modelling (BIM) and 3D Design for Substation Project Lifecycle

•

New bistable relay for PT selection under COMBIFLEX relay portfolio

•

In automation system business:
-

Electrical Network Control Center SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Accusation)

-

RTU (Remote Terminal Units) for distribution automation

-

Motor Protection system

-

Digital process bus based busbar protection

•

Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) and Field Service Management (FSM)

•

400kV Oil filled Cable box in Tap-less GSU (Generator Step up Transformer) 400kV 306MVA bank for
Hydroelectric project in the state of J&K. Dynamic Short Circuit Test successfully done.

•

Fully digital 63 MVA 220kV power transformer equipped with e-Devices, ODGA (CoreSense), CT4 (TXpert hub)

•

Traction Transformer design for Vande Bharat Train operated by Indian Railways.

•

Largest Solar Transformer engineering solution of 315MVA 400kV 3-phase transformer

•

24 pulse Rectifier duty Transformer for industrial and metro applications

•

145 kV hybrid GIS Pole assembly engineering and cable configuration

•

Fabricated Local Control Cubicle for Dead Tank Breakers

•

Hybrid GIS 170kV

•

Localization and qualification of assembly of HV Switchgear: 63 kA Interrupter; Spring Operated drive (1250J)
for 245 kV DTB and Hybrids; Spring Operated drive (2500J) for 420 kV LTB; Dead Tank Breaker poled for 420/
362 kV, 550 kV with and without PIR; Hybrid GIS pole for 72.5-123-145 and 245 kV; Hybrid GIS pole for Wind
Tower Applications for Wind

•

Vertical Break Disconnectors 145-170 kV

•

Manufacturing/Assembly and Testing of HVDC Light, Classic and STATCOM Valves; HVDC Control and Protection

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

142 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

2.

•

RelScan (A detailed assessment of the system) for reliability-centered maintenance (RCM) of power assets
and systems.

•

Automation products: Development of relays with alternate mounting & connection

•

Automation system technologies with:
-

Remedial Action Schemes

-

Centralized fault locator for Railways

-

New SCADA platform adoption for Industrial application

-

Digital busbar for large system application

•

Lumada Asset Performance Management (Lumada APM)

•

Vegetation Manager

•

Energy Trading & Risk Management (ETRM)

•

Network Manager SCADA, SCADA/EMS

Efforts made towards technology absorption
Technology absorption

Benefits derived as a result of the technology absorption

•

400kV Oil filled Cable box developed and deployed in Tap-less
GSU (Generator Step up Transformer) 400kV 306MVA bank for
Hydroelectric project in the state of J&K. Dynamic Short Circuit
Test successfully done.

New engineering solution launched to support large transformers
connected to GIS within less space. New reference for Short
Circuit test at NHPTL Bina SC lab established.

•

Bagged India’s first fully digital power transformer 63 MVA 220kV
from Goa Electricity Department. Equipped with e-Devices, ODGA
(CoreSense), CT4 (TXpert hub)

Local Techno-operational knowledge developed through last
year’s pilot Digitalization project would help deliver this 1st Digital
Transformer project and set the stage for new larger and more
involved Digital transformer projects.

•

Indigenously developed Traction Transformer design for Vande
Bharat Train operated by Indian Railways. With this bagged 1st
order to be supplied from Hitachi Energy Savli, Vadodara factory.

This order will pave the way for supporting new railway projects
launched by Indian railways using “Make in India” approach.

•

Developed 1st largest Solar Transformer engineering solution of
315MVA 400kV 3-phase transformer under commissioning at
JSW. With the developed solution bagged India’s largest Solar
Transformer supply order of 10 x 315MVA, 400kV (27 MUSD) for
NTPC Khavda project. One unit will be tested for Short Circuit.

Will gain valuable experience of deploying latest engineering
solution for upcoming Solar / Renewable Power projects and
further footprint in growing Renewable segment.

•

Indigenously developed Hitachi Energy India’s 1st 24 pulse
Rectifier duty Transformer and bagged orders from MRF and
Indore & Bhopal metro.

Building up leadership in 24-pulse unique technology to help
supply Dry transformers for Industrial and Metro Rail projects.

•

Pioneering development of Hitachi Energy design Solution for
“Scott and V Connected Transformers” rated 100MVA and 63
MVA respectively, which would support Indian Railway network for
upgrading their 25kV Electrification for high and semi high-speed
rail transportation with lowest transformer footprints and enhancing
the power capacity from traditional transformer solution.

Unique design Solution for 3phase to single phase 25kV Trackfeeder transformers with strong SC withstand performance
demonstrated through DSC test

Developing local capability to design, manufacture, test and
supply VSR (“Variable Shunt Reactors”) up to 400kV range
adopting global technology for local and export customer projects
for reactive power compensation and system stability.

VSR Transfer of Technology and Order pursuits are in progress
aimed to build up future capability

Digitally enabling ecosystem offering for complete transformer
solution with TXpert HUB Offering for asset monitoring, condition
monitoring, Operation & control of transformers installation with
precise predictability and life cycle management offering fulfilling
requirement of cyber security, compatibility & retrofit ability.

Fully establish Transformer Digitalization capability including
installation, operation and maintenance of elements like TXpert
Sensors, TXpert HUB, Lumada APM & TXservices

•

Introduction of 420 kV, 63 kA SF6 Circuit Breaker Type LTB 420E2
with FSA2 mechanism.

Cost effectiveness

•

Heating and vacuum process and single unit oil impregnation
process of capacitor manufacturing process. New capacitor
manufacturing process developed from batch manufacturing to
Lean manufacturing.

Reduction in power consumption

•

LV Automatic power factor correction panel successfully tested
for short time withstand test 70kA for 0.5 sec

Wider Market reach

•

Successfully completed type test as per IEC and IEEE standard
to quality the INPQP factory at Doddballpura for North American,
European and Middle-east and Indian transmission markets

Qualify for North American market and Middle east Market
Transco Ltd, PowerGrid India approval.

•

ENDC (Economic normal duty capacitor) developed for North
American Market successfully completed type test which includes
– 40 deg C overvoltage cycle test

Cost reduction project to increase market share in North
American market.

•

145 kV hybrid GIS structure calculation and drawings

Able to manufacture the structure in local market

•

Metal Enclosed Breaker (MEB) pole engineering approval

Can be offered to customer as a standard configuration

•

•

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 143

Technology absorption
•

3.

Benefits derived as a result of the technology absorption

Oil Impregnated Intermediate Potential Transformer for Capacitor
Voltage Transformer

Lower cost and higher reliability

•

Establishment of new feeder factory Dead Tank Breaker poles

Make In India, Cost benefits, more competitive

•

Investment for ramping up existing Production Unit set up to
adapt new Dead Tank Breakers & Hybrid GIS.

Cost effective product introduction

•

New factory for Spring drives production set up

Make In India, Cost benefits, more competitive

•

Factory setup at Chennai with Assembly & Test equipment,
Training of Key resources on the assembly and testing,
Documentation of Assembly and Testing process

Locally assemble and Test HVDC equipment of Valve/Control &
protection system for projects executed by Hitachi Energy India
Limited with better competitiveness.

•

Adoption of RelScan offering in services portfolios to do condition
assessment of substation equipment’s in customer sites.

Secured new order from Steel customer in western part of India.

•

Development of relays with alternate mounting & connection (first
release planned in FY 2023-24)

Market penetration and expansion in COMBIFLEX and
COMBITEST portfolio for relays

•

Engineered Remedial Action Schemes for load management
application

Remedial Action Scheme for cross border load management
application between India and Nepal

•

Engineered Centralized fault locator for Dedicated fright corridor
High Speed Railway application

Centralized fault locator for High-Speed Railway application 2 x
25kV system EDFC

•

Engineered New SCADA platform adoption for Industrial
application to maintain the system life cycle and serviceability

New SCADA platform adoption for Industrial application in
Vedanta/Hindalco/BCPL

•

Engineered Digital busbar for large system application using
advanced communication application

Digital busbar for large system application for TANTRANSCO

•

Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) and Field Service
Management (FSM)

Received order from for BMRCL Phase 2 (Reach 5&6) for
Maintenance Planning System where EAM and FSM will be
implemented. Implementing this solution will facilitate to
improve and optimize asset maintenance with also tracking of
maintenance activities.

•

Ellipse EAM and FSM

•

Lumada Asset Performance Management (Lumada APM)

•

Vegetation Manager

•

Energy Trading & Risk Management (ETRM)

•

Network Manager SCADA, SCADA/EMS

Various customer engagements were done during Apr2022Mar2023 towards positioning these solutions to different customers.
Further for few of the cases budgetary proposals are also submitted
and under discussions. Also, there are tenders for Network Manager
SCADA and SCADA/EMS which is presently in bidding stage.

The expenditure incurred on Research and Development:
Considering the nature of research and development, complexity, competency required, time frame, amount and also
to optimize overall cost, all major R&D efforts are pooled centrally at the Group level. The expenditure has mainly been
in the nature of payment of license fee for use of technology know-how reported as royalty and technology fees under
other expenses. Certain development activities carried out by the Company have been billed to the Group central
technology center. Local R&D activities undertaken by the Company were mainly in localizing the products, adoption of
global products to local environment, carrying out cost saving actions and other improvements. During the year under
review, the Company has paid INR 146.22 Crores as royalty and technology fees to Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd.

C.

Foreign exchange earnings and outgo:
Total foreign exchange used and earned
(Amount in ₹ Crores)
Particulars

2022-23
(April 01, 2022 to March 31, 2023)

2021-22
(January 01, 2021 to March 31, 2022)

Foreign Exchange earned

1188.62

1,123

Foreign Exchange used

1068.14

1,304

On behalf of Board of Directors
For Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 24, 2023

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

144 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Hitachi Energy India Limited (formerly
known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of
Hitachi Energy India Limited (formerly known as ABB Power
Products and Systems India Limited) (“the Company”),
which comprise the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2023,
the Statement of Profit and Loss, including the statement of
Other Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow Statement and
the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended,
and notes to the financial statements, including a summary
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory
information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and
according to the explanations given to us , the aforesaid
financial statements give the information required by the
Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the Act”) in the manner
so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the
state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2023, its
profit including other comprehensive income, its cash flows
and the changes in equity for the year ended on that date.

section of our report. We are independent of the Company
in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the
financial statements under the provisions of the Act and
the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and
the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our audit opinion on the financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of
the financial statements for the financial year ended
March 31, 2023. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole,
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our
description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided
in that context.

We conducted our audit of the financial statements in
accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under
those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements’

We have determined the matters described below to be the
key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We
have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
section of our report, including in relation to these matters.
Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures
designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our
audit procedures, including the procedures performed to
address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit
opinion on the accompanying financial statements.

Key audit matters

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Basis for Opinion

Revenue recognition for long term projects and contract estimates
(as described in Note 38 of the accompanying financial statements)
A significant portion of the Company’s business comprises of
long-term fixed price projects. Revenue from these contracts is
recognized in accordance with the principles laid down in Ind AS
115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers and as detailed in
“significant accounting policies” of the financial statements.
In accordance with Ind AS 115, the Company classifies its various
contracts with customers and determines whether revenue
should be recognized at “point in time” or “over the time” basis.

In view of the significance of the matter we applied the following
audit procedures in this area, among others to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence:
•

We assessed the revenue recognition accounting policies by
comparing with applicable accounting standards.

•

We tested key controls (both design and operating
effectiveness) with respect to revenue recognition and
related cost estimations.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 145

Key audit matters

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

There are various areas involving complexities, judgements and
estimates involved in accounting for revenue recognized on “over
the time” basis, including:

•

We carried out analytical procedures on revenue recognized
during the year ended to identify unusual variances.

•

We performed substantive testing by selecting samples of
revenue transactions, recorded during the year ended by
testing the underlying documents using statistical sampling.

•

We evaluated management’s estimates (contract costs and
risk provisions) by performing analytical procedures on such
estimates.

•

We performed a retrospective review for contracts completed
during the current year by comparing the final outcome of the
contracts with previous estimates made for those contracts to
assess the reliability of the management’s estimation process.

•

We performed tests for completeness and appropriateness
of actual cost booked in the correct period, by testing the
underlying documents for samples selected using statistical
sampling.

•

We assessed the disclosures made in the financial
statements.

•

•

Estimation of total contract costs at inception and remaining
costs to completion, which is a critical factor in measuring
progress of a contract and amounts of revenue to be
recognized; and
Assessment of various risks emanating from operational
delays, contract terms, changes in estimations and scope,
accounting for onerous obligations, technical, legal, external
environment etc. This requires the Company to estimate
various costs to capture such risks, including liquidated
damages and warranties.

In view of the above and because the Company and its external
stakeholders focus on revenue as a key performance indicator,
we determined this area to be an area involving significant risk,
an area of audit focus, and accordingly a key audit matter.

Trade receivables (including unbilled revenue) and contract assets
(as described in Note 38 of the accompanying financial statements)
Trade receivables including unbilled revenue and retention money
with customers and contract assets forms a significant part of the
financial statements. Customer contracts typically involve time
consuming and complex conditions around closure of contracts,
including technical acceptances. This generally leads to longer
and significant time for realization of receivables. As a result of
the above, management’s assessment of recoverability of trade
receivables (including unbilled revenue) and contract assets,
involves critical evaluation of all factors impacting recoverability,
including impact of external environment, capability of customers
to pay, historical payment records, evaluation of litigations,
etc. including the possible effect from the pandemic relating to
COVID-19.
Management makes an impairment allowance for trade receivables
(including unbilled revenue) and contract assets on the basis of
it’s assessment of recoverability of specific customers and on the
basis of expected credit loss model for the remaining customers
in accordance with Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments. For the
purposes of impairment assessment, significant judgements and
assumptions are made, including assessing credit risk, timing and
amount of realization, etc.

In view of the significance of the matter we applied the following
audit procedures in this area, among others to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence:
•

We obtained an understanding of the processes implemented
by management over the recognition and the recoverability
of the trade receivables (including unbilled revenue) and
contract assets.

•

We tested key controls (both design and operating effectiveness)
over the recognition and the recoverability of the trade receivables
(including unbilled revenue) and contract assets.

•

We obtained and tested the ageing of aforesaid receivables /
assets on a sample basis.

•

We performed test of details and tested relevant contracts and
documents for material trade receivable balances (including
unbilled revenue) and amounts included in contract assets.

•

We evaluated the model adopted by management to estimate
the expected credit loss including the possible effect from the
pandemic relating to COVID-19. We enquired the management
in respect of the various judgements and estimates made
relating to impairment provision against trade receivable
(including unbilled revenue) and contract assets.

•

We obtained and discussed management assessment of
impairment for specific customer balances and understood
reasons for the determination.

•

We have circulated direct confirmations on a sample basis
using statistical sampling. In case of non- receipt of such
confirmations, alternate test procedures such as testing
subsequent receipts and underlying documents have been
performed.

•

We assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements.

In view of above, we determined this area to be an area of audit
focus, and accordingly a key audit matter.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

146 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Information Other than the Financial Statements and
Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other
information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Annual report, but does not include the
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The
Annual report is expected to be made available to us after the
date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover
the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing
so, consider whether such other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.
When we read the Annual report, if we conclude that there
is a material misstatement therein, we are required to
communicate the matter to those charged with governance
and take necessary actions as applicable under the applicable
laws and regulations.
Responsibilities
Statements

of

Management

for

the

Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing
the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial
Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee
that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if,
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken
on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
•

Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk
of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

•

Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our
opinion on whether the Company has adequate internal
financial controls with reference to financial statements in
place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.

•

Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by management.

•

Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures
in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of
our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions
may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going
concern.

•

Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content
of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and

Financial

The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to
the preparation of these financial statements that give a true
and fair view of the financial position, financial performance
including other comprehensive income, cash flows and
changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the
accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section
133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting
Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. This responsibility also
includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in
accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of
the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting
frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design,
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal
financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,
relevant to the preparation and presentation of the financial
statements that give a true and fair view and are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, management is
responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related
to going concern and using the going concern basis of
accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the
Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative
but to do so.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

whether the financial statements represent the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that achieves
fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate
with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with
governance, we determine those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the financial statements for the
financial year ended March 31, 2023 and are therefore the
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances,
we determine that a matter should not be communicated in
our report because the adverse consequences of doing so
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest
benefits of such communication.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 147

(e)

On the basis of the written representations
received from the directors as on March 31, 2023
taken on record by the Board of Directors, none of
the directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2023
from being appointed as a director in terms of
Section 164 (2) of the Act;

(f)

With respect to the adequacy of the internal
financial controls with reference to these financial
statements and the operating effectiveness of
such controls, refer to our separate Report in
“Annexure 2” to this report;

(g)

In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for
the year ended March 31, 2023 has been paid
/ provided by the Company to its directors in
accordance with the provisions of section 197
read with Schedule V to the Act;

(h)

With respect to the other matters to be included in
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014,
as amended in our opinion and to the best of our
information and according to the explanations
given to us:
i.

The Company has disclosed the impact of
pending litigations on its financial position
in its financial statements – Refer Note 35 to
the accompanying financial statements;

ii.

The Company has made provision,
as required under the applicable law
or accounting standards, for material
foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term
contracts including derivative contracts –
Refer Notes 18 and 22 to the accompanying
financial statements;

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.

As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order,
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government
of India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of
the Act, we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.

2.

As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
(a)

We have sought and obtained all the information
and explanations which to the best of our
knowledge and belief were necessary for the
purposes of our audit;

iii.

There has been no delay in transferring
amounts, required to be transferred, to the
Investor Education and Protection Fund by
the Company

(b)

In our opinion, proper books of account as
required by law have been kept by the Company
so far as it appears from our examination of
those books;

iv.

(c)

The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit
and Loss including the Statement of Other
Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow Statement
and Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with
by this Report are in agreement with the books
of account;

(d)

In our opinion, the aforesaid financial statements
comply with the Accounting Standards specified
under Section 133 of the Act, read with
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules,
2015, as amended;

a) The management has represented that,
to the best of its knowledge and belief,
and as disclosed in the note 45 to the
accompanying financial statements, no
funds have been advanced or loaned or
invested (either from borrowed funds or
share premium or any other sources or
kind of funds) by the Company to or in any
other person(s) or entity(ies), including
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with
the understanding, whether recorded
in writing or otherwise, that the
Intermediary shall, whether, directly
or indirectly lend or invest in other
persons or entities identified in any
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of
the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”)

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

148 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

or provide any guarantee, security
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate
Beneficiaries;

for the previous year is in accordance with
section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies
to payment of dividend.

b) 
The management has represented that,
to the best of its knowledge and belief,
and as disclosed in the note 45 to the
accompanying financial statements, no
funds have been received by the Company
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with
the understanding, whether recorded in
writing or otherwise, that the Company
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend
or invest in other persons or entities
identified in any manner whatsoever by or
on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee,
security or the like on behalf of the
Ultimate Beneficiaries; and

As stated in note 16 to the accompanying
financial statements, the Board of Directors
of the Company have proposed final
dividend for the year which is subject to
the approval of the members at the ensuing
Annual General Meeting. The dividend
declared is in accordance with section
123 of the Act to the extent it applies to
declaration of dividend.

c) 
Based on such audit procedures
performed that have been considered
reasonable and appropriate in the
circumstances, nothing has come to our
notice that has caused us to believe that
the representations under sub-clause (a)
and (b) contain any material misstatement.
v.

The final dividend paid by the Company during
the year in respect of the same declared

vi.

As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable for the
Company only w.e.f. April 1, 2023, reporting
under this clause is not applicable.

For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership Number: 061207
UDIN: 23061207BGYKVA1541
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 24, 2023

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 149

Annexure 1 to the Independent
Auditor’s Report
Annexure 1 referred to in clause 1 of paragraph on the ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ of our
report of even date
Re: Hitachi Energy India Limited (formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited) (‘the Company’)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Company and the books of account and
records examined by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that:
(i)

(a)  (A) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation
of property, plant and equipment.
(B) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangibles assets.

(ii)

(b)

Property, plant and equipment have been physically verified by the management during the year and no material
discrepancies were identified on such verification.

(c)

The title deeds of immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease
agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee and as tabulated below) as disclosed in note 3 to the
accompanying financial statements included in property, plant and equipment are held in the name of the Company.
Certain immovable properties acquired as per the scheme of arrangement approved by the National Company Law
Tribunal vide its order dated November 27, 2019 included in property, plant and equipment and as tabulated below
are not held in the name of the Company.
Held in
name of

Whether promoter,
director or
their relative or
employee

Period
held

Freehold/ Leasehold
land and buildings
attached to it

₹ 170.50 Crores

ABB India
Limited

No

Since 2019

Reason for not being
held in the name of
Company
We understand from
the management that
registration is in process.

(d)

The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right of use assets) or intangible assets
during the year ended March 31, 2023.

(e)

As disclosed in note 45 to the accompanying financial statements, there are no proceedings initiated or are pending
against the Company for holding any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act,
1988 and rules made thereunder.

(a)  The inventory has been physically verified by the management during the year except for inventories lying with
third parties and goods in transit. In our opinion, the frequency of verification by the management is reasonable
and the coverage and procedure for such verification is appropriate. Inventories lying with third parties have been
substantially confirmed by them as at March 31, 2023 and discrepancies of 10% or more in aggregate for each class
of inventory were not noticed.
(b)

(iii)

Description of Property

Gross carrying
value

The Company has not been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of Rupees five Crores in aggregate from
banks or financial institutions during any point of time of the year on the basis of security of current assets.
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company and hence
not commented upon.

(a)   During the year the Company has provided interest free loans to other parties (i.e. employees) as summarized below:
Particulars

Loans

Aggregate amount granted/ provided during the year
- Others (loans to employees)

₹ 5.12 Crores

Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect of above cases
- Others (loans to employees)

₹ 5.68 Crores

Other than the above, the Company has not provided loans, advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantee and
provided security to the companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

150 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

(b)

The terms and conditions of the grant of all loans
to employees during the year are, in our opinion,
prima facie, not prejudicial to the Company’s
interest. Other than above, the Company has not
made investments, provided guarantees, provided
security and granted advances in the nature
of loans to companies, firms, Limited Liability
Partnerships or any other parties.

(c)

The Company has granted loans during the
year to the employees where the schedule of
repayment of principal has been stipulated and
the repayment or receipts are regular.

(d)

There are no amounts of loans or advances in
nature of loans granted to companies, firms,
limited liability partnerships or any other parties
which are overdue for more than ninety days.

(e)

(f)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

There were no loans or advances in nature of
loans granted to companies, firms, Limited
Liability Partnerships or any other parties which
was fallen due during the year, that have been
renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to
settle the overdues of existing loans given to the
same parties.

been regularly deposited with the appropriate
authorities. According to the information and
explanations given to us and based on audit
procedures performed by us, no undisputed
amounts payable in respect of these statutory
dues were outstanding, at the year end, for a
period of more than six months from the date they
became payable.
(b)

(viii) As disclosed in note 45 to the accompanying financial
statements, the Company has not surrendered or
disclosed any transaction, previously unrecorded in
the books of account, in the tax assessments under
the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year.
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(viii)
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(ix)

The Company has not granted any loans or
advances in the nature of loans, either repayable
on demand or without specifying any terms
or period of repayment to companies, firms,
Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties.
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause
3(iii)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the
Company and hence not commented upon.

There are no loans, investments, guarantees, and
securities given in respect of which provisions of section
185 and 186 of the Act are applicable and accordingly
the requirement to report on clause 3(iv) of the Order
is not applicable to the Company and hence not
commented upon.
The Company has neither accepted any deposits
from the public nor accepted any amounts which are
deemed to be deposits within the meaning of sections
73 to 76 of the Act and the rules made thereunder, to
the extent applicable. Accordingly, the requirement to
report on clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the
Company and hence not commented upon.
We have broadly reviewed the books of account
maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules made
by the Central Government for the maintenance of cost
records under section 148(1) of the Act related to the
products manufactured by the Company, and are of
the opinion that prima facie, the specified accounts and
records have been made and maintained. We have not,
however, made a detailed examination of the same.
(a)  Undisputed statutory dues including goods and
services tax, provident fund, employees’ state
insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, service tax,
duty of custom, duty of excise, value added tax,
cess and other statutory dues have generally

There are no dues of goods and services tax,
provident fund, employees’ state insurance,
income tax, sales-tax, service tax, customs duty,
excise duty, value added tax, cess, and other
statutory dues which have not been deposited on
account of any dispute.

(x)

(a)  The Company has not defaulted in repayment of
loans or other borrowings or in the payment of
interest thereon to any lender.
(b)

As disclosed in note 45 to the accompanying
financial statements, the Company has not been
declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial
institution or government or any government
authority.

(c)

The Company did not have any term loans
outstanding during the year hence, the
requirement to report on clause (ix)(c) of the Order
is not applicable to the Company and hence not
commented upon.

(d)

On an overall examination of the financial
statements of the Company, no funds raised on
short-term basis have been used for long-term
purposes by the Company.

(e)

The Company does not have any subsidiary,
associate or joint venture. Accordingly, the
requirement to report on clause 3(ix)(e) of the
Order is not applicable to the Company and
hence not commented upon.

(f)

The Company does not have any subsidiary,
associate or joint venture. Accordingly, the
requirement to report on Clause 3(ix)(f) of the
Order is not applicable to the Company and
hence not commented upon.

(a)  The Company has not raised any money during
the year by way of initial public offer / further
public offer (including debt instruments) hence,
the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(a) of the
Order is not applicable to the Company and hence
not commented upon.
(b)

The Company has not made any preferential
allotment or private placement of shares /fully

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

or partially or optionally convertible debentures
during the year under audit and hence, the
requirement to report on clause 3(x)(b) of the Order
is not applicable to the Company and hence not
commented upon.
(xi)

(a)  No fraud by the Company or no material fraud on
the Company has been noticed or reported during
the year.
(b)

(c)

(xii)

During the year, no report under sub-section (12)
of section 143 of the Act has been filed by auditors
as applicable in Form ADT – 4 as prescribed under
Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,
2014 with the Central Government.
We have taken into consideration the whistle
blower complaints received by the Company
during the year while determining the nature,
timing and extent of audit procedures.

The Company is not a Nidhi Company as per the
provisions of the Act. Therefore, the requirement to
report on clause 3(xii)(a) to 3(xii)(c) of the Order is not
applicable to the Company and hence not commented
upon.

(xiii) Transactions with the related parties are in compliance
with sections 177 and 188 of the Act where applicable
and the details have been disclosed in the notes to
the financial statements, as required by the applicable
accounting standards.
(xiv) (a)  The Company has an internal audit system
commensurate with the size and nature of
its business.
(b)

(xv)

The internal audit reports of the Company issued
till the date of the audit report, for the period under
audit have been considered by us.

The Company has not entered into any non-cash
transactions with its directors or persons connected
with the directors as referred to in section 192 of the Act
and hence requirement to report on clause 3(xv) of the
Order is not applicable to the Company and hence not
commented upon.

(xvi) (a)  The provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are not
applicable to the Company. Accordingly, the
requirement to report on clause (xvi)(a) of the
Order is not applicable to the Company and hence
not commented upon.
(b)

(c)

The Company is not engaged in any NonBanking Financial or Housing Finance activities.
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause
(xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the
Company and hence not commented upon.
The Company is not a Core Investment Company
as defined in the regulations made by Reserve
Bank of India. Accordingly, the requirement to
report on clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not
applicable to the Company and hence not
commented upon.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 151

(d)

There is no Core Investment Company as a part
of the Group, hence, the requirement to report on
clause 3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable to
the Company and hence not commented upon.

(xvii) The Company has not incurred cash losses in the
current financial year and in the immediately preceding
financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors
during the year and accordingly requirement to report
on Clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the
Company and hence not commented upon.
(xix) On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note
42 to the accompanying financial statements, ageing
and expected dates of realization of financial assets
and payment of financial liabilities, other information
accompanying the financial statements, our
knowledge of the Board of Directors and management
plans and based on our examination of the evidence
supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our
attention, which causes us to believe that any material
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report
that Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities
existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they
fall due within a period of one year from the balance
sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an
assurance as to the future viability of the Company.
We further state that our reporting is based on the
facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither
give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities
falling due within a period of one year from the balance
sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as
and when they fall due.
(xx)

(a)  In respect of other than ongoing projects, there
are no unspent amounts that are required to be
transferred to a fund specified in Schedule VII of
the Act, in compliance with second proviso to sub
section 5 of section 135 of the Act. This matter has
been disclosed in note 41 to the accompanying
financial statements.
(b)

All amounts that are unspent under section (5) of
section 135 of the Act, pursuant to any ongoing
project, has been transferred to special account
in compliance of with provisions of sub section
(6) of section 135 of the said Act. This matter has
been disclosed in note 41 to the accompanying
financial statements.

For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
ICAI firm registration number: 101049W/E300004
Chartered Accountants
per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership Number: 061207
UDIN: 23061207BGYKVA1541
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 24, 2023

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

152 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Annexure 2 to the Independent
Auditor’s Report
Annexure 2 to the Independent Auditor’s report of even
date on the financial statements of Hitachi Energy India
Limited (formerly known as ABB Power Products and
Systems India Limited)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause
(i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act,
2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference
to financial statements of Hitachi Energy India Limited
(formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited) (“the Company”) as of March 31, 2023 in conjunction
with our audit of the financial statements of the Company for
the year ended on that date.
Management’s
Controls

Responsibility

for

Internal

Financial

The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining internal financial controls based on the
internal control over financial reporting criteria established
by the Company considering the essential components of
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance
Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design,
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including
adherence to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of
its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors,
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as
required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s
internal financial controls with reference to these financial
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in
accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on
Auditing, as specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to
the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls,
both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance
Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether adequate internal financial controls with
reference to these financial statements was established and
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial
controls with reference to these financial statements and their

operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls
with reference to financial statements included obtaining an
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to
these financial statements, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether
due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with
reference to these financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls With Reference to
these Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference
to financial statements is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls
with reference to financial statements includes those policies
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are
being made only in accordance with authorisations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of
the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls With
Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial
controls with reference to financial statements, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk
that the internal financial control with reference to financial
statements may become inadequate because of changes
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects,
adequate internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements and such internal financial controls
with reference to financial statements were operating
effectively as at March 31, 2023, based on the internal
control over financial reporting criteria established by
the Company considering the essential components of
internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by
the ICAI.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 153

For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership Number: 061207
UDIN: 23061207BGYKVA1541
Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 24, 2023

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

154 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Balance Sheet

as at March 31, 2023
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Notes
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Capital work-in-progress
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Financial assets
Loans
Other financial assets
Non-current tax assets (net)
Deferred tax assets (net)
Other non-current assets
Current assets
Inventories
Financial assets
Trade receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalent
Loans
Other financial assets
Other current assets

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

3
3
4
5
5

616.75
63.70
48.67
31.80
1.08

547.21
71.95
118.33
31.80
1.58

6
7
8
9
10

3.49
13.59
33.80
31.87
1.90
846.65

2.18
13.63
15.06
34.83
6.04
842.61

11

817.90

707.25

12
13
14
6
7
15

1,527.77
163.19
0.10
2.19
34.47
526.24
3,071.86

1,418.70
85.90
0.04
3.24
53.10
413.04
2,681.27

3,918.51

3,523.88

Total Assets
Equity and liabilities
Equity
Equity share capital
Other equity

16
17

8.48
1,206.83
1,215.31

8.48
1,123.91
1,132.39

Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities

36(b)
18

46.62
2.20
48.82

52.84
3.17
56.01

19
36(b)

275.00
12.69

125.00
12.16

Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
Lease liabilities
Trade payables
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small
enterprises
Other financial liabilities
Other current liabilities
Provisions
Liabilities for current tax (net)

20

76.22

84.02

20

1,438.40

1,534.98

18
21
22

123.08
533.79
195.20
2,654.38

94.49
297.25
174.30
13.28
2,335.48

3,918.51

3,523.88

Total equity and liabilities
Summary of significant accounting policies
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements

2

As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 101049W/E300004

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman & Director
DIN: 08596097

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director & CEO
DIN: 07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 24, 2023

Bengaluru
May 24, 2023

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 155

Statement of profit and loss

for the year ended March 31, 2023

All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

4,468.51
15.14

4,883.96
66.94

4,483.65

4,950.90

2,721.24
85.61

2,780.09
118.24

26

(95.89)

(127.15)

27
28
29
30

150.58
417.29
80.16
40.09
953.75

286.50
486.75
95.46
41.39
1,028.88

4,352.83

4,710.16

130.82
-

240.74
(35.85)

130.82

276.59

35.94
(1.39)
2.37
36.92

87.83
(14.64)
73.19

93.90

203.40

2.33
(0.59)
1.74

6.61
(1.66)
4.95

95.64

208.35

22.16

47.99

Notes
Income
Revenue from operations
Other income

23
24

Total income
Expenses
Cost of raw materials, components consumed and project bought outs
Purchase of stock-in-trade
(Increase)/ decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and
stock-in-trade
Subcontracting charges
Employee benefits expense
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Finance costs
Other expenses

25

Total expenses
Profit before exceptional items and tax
Exceptional items

39

Profit before tax
Tax expense:
Current tax
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
Deferred tax charge/ (credit)
Total tax expense

9
9
9

Profit for the year/period
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Re-measurement gains/ (losses) on defined benefit plan
Income tax effect
Other comprehensive income for the year/period, net of income tax

32
9

Total comprehensive income for the year/period, net of income tax
Earnings per equity share of face value of ₹ 2 each
Basic and diluted (₹)

31

Summary of significant accounting policies
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements

2

As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 101049W/E300004

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman & Director
DIN: 08596097

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director & CEO
DIN: 07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 24, 2023

Bengaluru
May 24, 2023

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

156 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Statement of cash flows

for the year ended March 31, 2023

All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

A.

B.

C.

For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax

130.82

276.59

Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Liabilities/ provisions no longer required written back
Unrealised exchange (gains)/ loss (net)
Mark to market change in forward, commodity contracts and embedded derivative contracts
Loss on sale of fixed assets (net)
Provision for doubtful debts and advances/ bad debts/ advances written off
Interest income
Finance costs
Operating profit before working capital changes

80.16
(14.55)
2.85
(0.10)
0.47
14.49
(0.57)
40.09
253.66

95.46
(41.49)
(3.80)
16.18
1.42
26.03
(0.94)
41.39
410.84

Movement in working capital
Increase/ (decrease) in trade payables
Increase/ (decrease) in other financial liabilities
Increase/ (decrease) in other liabilities and provisions
(Increase)/ decrease in trade receivables
(Increase)/ decrease in inventories
(Increase)/ decrease in other financial assets
(Increase)/ decrease in loans and other assets
Cash generated from operations
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
Net cash flows from/(used in) operating activities

(90.57)
6.22
260.43
(125.34)
(110.65)
(7.92)
(113.89)
71.94
(66.57)
5.37

96.44
(5.49)
(339.73)
190.72
(212.17)
1.52
(175.99)
(33.86)
(92.83)
(126.69)

Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment including capital advances
(net of reimbursement of capital expenditure)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of intangible assets
Interest received
Net cash flow used in investing activities

(11.94)

(167.39)

0.04
(0.07)
0.20
(11.77)

0.54
(0.61)
0.51
(166.95)

Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from/ (repayment of) short term borrowings (net)
Finance costs paid
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities
Payment of interest portion of lease liabilities
Dividend paid on equity shares
Net cash flow from financing activities

150.00
(35.81)
(13.60)
(4.24)
(12.66)
83.69

125.00
(37.18)
(14.59)
(4.20)
(8.44)
60.59

Net (decrease)/ increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year/period
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year/period

77.29
85.90
163.19

(233.05)
318.95
85.90

Components of cash and cash equivalents (refer note 13)

163.19
163.19

85.90
85.90

Notes:
i.
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year/period represent cash and cheques on hand/ remittance in transit and cash at bank.
ii. Cash flow statement is made using the indirect method.
iii. Refer note 13 for details pertaining to changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
Summary of significant accounting policies
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements

2

As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 101049W/E300004

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman & Director
DIN: 08596097

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director & CEO
DIN: 07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 24, 2023

Bengaluru
May 24, 2023

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 157

Statement of changes in equity

for the year ended March 31, 2023
a.

Equity share capital:

Equity shares of ₹ 2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid

All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Number of shares

Amount

4,23,81,675

8.48

As at January 1, 2021
Changes in equity share capital
As at March 31, 2022

-

-

4,23,81,675

8.48

Changes in equity share capital
As at March 31, 2023

b.

-

-

4,23,81,675

8.48

Other equity:
Attributable to equity shareholders
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Reserves and surplus
Securities
premium

General
reserve

As at January 1, 2021

Retained
earnings

Capital
reserve

Amalgamation
adjustment
deficit account

Total
equity

9.80

507.10

408.52

0.18

(1.56)

924.04

Profit for the period

-

-

203.40

-

-

203.40

Other comprehensive income for the period (net of tax)

-

-

4.95

-

-

4.95

Dividend for the year ended December 31, 2020
(₹ 2 per share of face value of ₹ 2 each)

-

-

(8.48)

-

-

(8.48)

9.80

507.10

608.39

0.18

(1.56)

1,123.91

Profit for the year

As at March 31, 2022

-

-

93.90

-

-

93.90

Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax)

-

-

1.74

-

-

1.74

Dividend for the period ended March 31, 2022
(₹ 3 per share of face value of ₹ 2 each)

-

-

(12.72)

-

-

(12.72)

9.80

507.10

691.31

0.18

(1.56)

1,206.83

As at March 31, 2023
Summary of significant accounting policies
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements

2

As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 101049W/E300004

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman & Director
DIN: 08596097

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director & CEO
DIN: 07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 24, 2023

Bengaluru
May 24, 2023

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

158 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Notes to the financial statements

for the year ended March 31, 2023
1.

Corporate Information
Hitachi Energy India Limited (name change with effect from November 12, 2021, formerly known as ABB Power Products
and Systems India Limited (‘the Company’ or ‘APPSIL’) is a public limited Company domiciled in India and incorporated
under the provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 2013 on February 19, 2019. The registered office is located at Bengaluru.
The Company serves utility and industry customers, with the complete range of engineering, products, solutions and
services in areas of Power technology. The Company has extensive installed base for manufacturing and a countrywide
marketing and service presence. Besides catering to Indian domestic market, the Company is also playing an increasing
role in the global market.
The equity shares of the Company have been listed and are being traded on BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock
Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”).
The financial statements are approved for issue by the Company’s Board of Directors on May 24, 2023.

2.

Significant accounting policies
The significant accounting policies applied by the Company in the preparation of its Ind AS financial statements are listed
below. Such accounting policies have been applied consistently to all the periods presented in these financial statements,
unless otherwise stated.
2.1

Basis of preparation of financial statements
A.

Statement of compliance
These financial statements of the Company are prepared and presented in accordance with Indian Accounting
Standards (“Ind AS”) notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended
and other relevant provision of the Act as amended from time to time and presentation requirements of Division
II of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS compliant Schedule III), as applicable to the financial
statements. The Company has prepared the financial statements on the basis that it will continue to operate as
a going concern

B.

Functional and presentation currency
The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees Crores which is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the Company operated, rounded off to two decimal places, except where otherwise
indicated.

C.

Basis of measurement
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost convention and on accrual basis, except
for certain financial instruments (refer accounting policy regarding financial instruments), which are measured
at fair values at the end of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting policies below.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and
services as at the date of respective transactions.

D.

Comparatives
The financial statements provide comparative information in respect of the previous period. However, in the
previous period, the financial year of the Company had changed from January 01 - December 31 to April 01 March
31.
Consequently,
the
previous
financial
year
was
changed
from
January 01, 2021 - December 31, 2021 to January 01, 2021 - March 31, 2022 (15 months period)
and, from current year onwards, the financial year of the Company would be from April 01 to
March 31 every year. Therefore, the current financial year is from April 01, 2022 to March 31, 2023 and comparative
period is from January 01, 2021 to March 31, 2022.

2.2

Use of estimates
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with Ind AS requires management to make estimates,
judgments and assumptions. These estimates, judgments and assumptions affect the application of accounting
policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 159

the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Application
of accounting policies that require critical accounting estimates involving complex and subjective judgments and
the use of assumptions in these financial statements have been disclosed in Note 2.3. Accounting estimates could
change from period to period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Appropriate changes in estimates
are made as management becomes aware of changes in circumstances surrounding the estimates. Changes in
estimates are reflected in the financial statements in the period in which changes are made and, if material, their
effects are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
2.3

Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates
are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods affected. The Company based
its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared. Existing
circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or
circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the Company. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions
when they occur.
Significant judgements and estimates relating to the carrying values of assets and liabilities include, determination
of estimated projected cost and revenue in long term contracts, determination of term of lease contracts, fair value
measurement, impairment of goodwill, provision for employee benefits and other provisions, recoverability of
deferred tax assets and commitments and contingencies.
2.3.1 Estimates and assumptions
a.

Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment represent a significant proportion of the asset base of the Company. The
charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining an estimate of an asset’s expected
useful life and the expected residual value at the end of its life. The useful lives and residual values of
Company’s assets are determined by management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed
periodically, including at each financial year end. The lives are based on historical experience with similar
assets as well as anticipation of future events, which may impact their life, such as changes in technology.

b.

Provision for employee benefits
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are determined
using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ
from actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary
increases and mortality rates. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature,
a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are
reviewed at each reporting date. The parameter most subject to change is the discount rate. In determining
the appropriate discount rate for plans operated in India, the management considers the interest rates of
government bonds in currencies consistent with the currencies of the post-employment benefit obligation.
The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality tables. Those mortality tables tend to change
only at interval in response to demographic changes. Future salary increases and gratuity increases are
based on expected future inflation rate and past trends. Further details about gratuity obligations are given
in Note 32.

c.

Provision for litigations and contingencies
The provision for litigations and contingencies are determined based on evaluation made by the
management of the present obligation arising from past events the settlement of which is expected
to result in outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, which involves judgements around
estimating the ultimate outcome of such past events and measurement of the obligation amount. Due
to the judgements involved in such estimations the provisions are sensitive to the actual outcome in
future periods.

d.

Project revenue and costs
The Company uses the percentage-of-completion method in accounting for its fixed-price contracts.
Use of the percentage-of-completion method requires the Company to estimate the efforts or costs
expended to date as a proportion of the total efforts or costs to be expended. Efforts or costs expended
have been used to measure progress towards completion as there is a direct relationship between

160 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

input and productivity. Provisions for estimated losses, if any, on uncompleted contracts are recorded
in the period in which such losses become probable based on the expected contract estimates at the
reporting date.
Further, the percentage-of-completion method places considerable importance on accurate estimates
to the extent of progress towards completion and may involve estimates on the scope of deliveries and
services required for fulfilling the contractually defined obligations. These significant estimates include
total contract costs, total contract revenues, contract risks, including technical, political and regulatory
risks, and other judgments. This requires the Company to estimate various costs to capture such risks,
including liquidated damages and warranties. The Company re-assesses these estimates on periodic
basis and makes appropriate revisions accordingly.
e.

Provision
Significant estimates are involved in the determination of provisions related to liquidated damages,
onerous contracts and warranty provision. The Company records a provision for onerous sales contracts
when current estimates of total contract costs exceed expected contract revenue. Warranty provision is
determined based on the historical trend of warranty expense for the same types of goods for which the
warranty is currently being determined, after adjusting for unusual factors related to the goods that were
sold or based on specific warranty clause in an agreement. Such estimates are reviewed annually for
any material changes in assumptions and likelihood of occurrence. The provision for warranty, liquidated
damages and onerous contracts is based on the best estimate required to settle the present obligation
at the end of reporting period.

f.

Impairment of non-financial assets
Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit (CGU) exceeds its
recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The
fair value less costs of disposal calculation is based on available data from binding sales transactions,
conducted at arm’s length, for similar assets or observable market prices less incremental costs for
disposing of the asset. The value in use calculation is based on a Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model.
The cash ﬂows are derived from the budget and do not include restructuring activities that the Company
is not yet committed to or signiﬁcant future investments that will enhance the asset’s performance of the
CGU being tested. The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the DCF model as
well as the expected future cash-inﬂows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes.

g.

Fair value measurement of ﬁnancial instruments
When the fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using appropriate valuation
techniques. The inputs for these valuations are taken from observable sources where possible, but where
this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values. Judgements include
considerations of various inputs including liquidity risk, credit risk, volatility etc. Changes in assumptions/
judgements about these factors could effect the reported fair value of ﬁnancial instruments.

h.

Taxes
The Company uses estimates and judgements based on the relevant rulings in the areas of allocation
of revenue, costs, allowances and disallowances which is exercised while determining the provision for
income tax. Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of tax regulations, changes in tax laws,
and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Given the wide range of business relationships
differences arising between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future changes to such
assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. The
Company establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates. The amount of such provisions
is based on various factors, such as experience of previous assessments and interpretations of tax
regulations by the Company.

i.

Impairment allowance for trade receivables
The Company uses a provision matrix to calculate Expected Credit Losses (‘ECL’) for trade receivables.
The provision rates are based on days past due for groupings of various customer segments that have

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 161

similar loss patterns (i.e., by geography, customer type, rating and coverage by letters of credit and
other forms of credit insurance). The provision matrix is initially based on the Company’s historical
observed default rates. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated and
changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes in
circumstances and of forecast economic conditions.
j.

Leases: whether an arrangement contains a lease
The Company determines the lease term as the agreed tenure of the lease, together with any periods
covered by an option to extend the lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any periods covered
by an option to terminate the lease, if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised. After the commencement
date, the Company reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances that
is within its control and affects its ability to exercise or not to exercise the option to renew or to terminate
(e.g., construction of significant leasehold improvements or significant customisation to the leased asset).

2.4

Current and non-current classification
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current/ non-current classification. An
asset is treated as current when it is:
•

Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal operating cycle;

•

Held primarily for the purpose of trading;

•

Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period; or

•

Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve
months after the reporting period.

All other assets are classified as non-current.
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non- current as per the Company’s operating cycle and
other criteria set out in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013. Based on the nature of products and the time
between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realization in cash and cash equivalents, the Company
has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months for the purpose of current and non- current classification of assets
and liabilities, except for long-term contracts. The projects business comprises long-term contracts which have an
operating cycle exceeding one year. For classification of current assets and liabilities related to projects business,
the Company uses the duration of the individual life cycle of the contract as its operating cycle.
A liability is current when:
•

It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle;

•

It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;

•

It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period; or

•

There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the
reporting period;

The Company classifies all other liabilities as non-current;
Advance tax paid is classified as non-current assets
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities.
2.5

Foreign Currency
Functional currency
The functional currency of the Company is the Indian Rupee.

Transactions and translations Initial recognition transactions in foreign currencies are recorded by the Company at their
respective functional currency spot rates at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates of
exchange at the reporting date. The gains or losses resulting from such translations are recognised in the statement of
profit and loss.

162 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Non-monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign currency and measured at fair value are
translated at the exchange rate prevalent at the date when the fair value was measured. Non-monetary assets and nonmonetary liabilities denominated in a foreign currency and measured at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate
prevalent at the date of the transaction.
Transaction gains or losses realized upon settlement of foreign currency transactions are included in determining net profit
for the period in which the transaction is settled. Revenue, expense and cash flow items denominated in foreign currencies
are translated into the relevant functional currencies using the exchange rate in effect on the date of the transaction.
2.6

Revenue Recognition
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of the goods or services are transferred to the
customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange
for those goods or services. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will
flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being made.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, taking into account contractually
defined terms of payment and excluding taxes or duties collected on behalf of the government. The Company has
concluded that it is the principal in all of its revenue arrangements since it is the primary obligor in all the revenue
arrangements as it has pricing latitude and is also exposed to inventory and credit risks.
The Company considers whether there are other promises in the contract that are separate performance obligations
to which a portion of the transaction price needs to be allocated if any. In determining the transaction price for the
sale of goods, the Company considers the effects of variable consideration, the existence of significant financing
components, noncash consideration, and consideration payable to the customer (if any).
Revenue are stated exclusive of goods and service tax and net of trade and quantity discount.
Liquidated damages / penalties are provided for as per the contract terms wherever there is a delayed delivery
attributable to the Company.
Revenue from the sale of goods
Revenues are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer,
usually on delivery of the goods. Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration
received or receivable, net of returns and allowances, trade discounts and volume rebates. Revenue recognized in
excess of billing has been reflected under “Other financial assets” as unbilled revenue.
Revenue from execution of contracts for projects and services
Revenues are recognised on the percentage of completion method, in proportion that the contract costs incurred
for work performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total contract costs. Contract revenue earned in
excess of billing has been reflected under “Other current assets” and billing in excess of contract revenue has been
reflected under “Other current liabilities” in the balance sheet. Full provision is made for any loss in the year in which
it is first foreseen.
Revenue from sale of services
Revenue from services rendered over a period of time, such as annual maintenance contracts, are recognised on
straight line basis over the period of the performance obligation.
Income from development services
Revenue from the development services is recognised as per the contract terms and when accrued. When the
contract outcome cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that the expenses incurred
are eligible to be recovered.
Commission income
Commission income is recognized as per contract terms and when accrued.
Export benefits
Export incentives receivable are accrued for, when the right to receive the credit is established and there is no
significant uncertainty regarding the realisability of the incentive.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 163

Other income
Interest income is recognised on time proportion basis.
Fair value gain on financial instruments is recognized using the effective interest method.
2.7

Income tax
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred income tax. Income tax expense is recognized in net profit in
the statement of profit and loss.
2.7.1 Current tax
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid
to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted
or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the countries where the Company operates and generates
taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which
applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and considers whether it is probable that a taxation
authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment. The Company shall reflect the effect of uncertainty for each
uncertain tax treatment by using either most likely method or expected value method, depending on which
method predicts better resolution of the treatment.
The Company offsets tax assets and tax liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable right to set off the
recognized amounts and where it intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the
liability simultaneously.
2.7.2 Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply to taxable income in the years
in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of changes in tax
rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized as income or expense in the period that includes the
enactment or the substantive enactment date.
A deferred tax asset is recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available
against which the deductible temporary differences and tax losses can be utilized.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in
other comprehensive income or in equity). Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying
transaction either in OCI or directly in equity.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to
be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the
extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.

2.8

Property, plant and equipment
Recognition and measurement
Freehold Land is carried at historical cost, all other item of property, plant and equipment is measured at cost, net of
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Cost includes expenditures that are directly
attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment and
borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of property,
plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Company depreciates them separately based on their
specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the
property, plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in statement of profit and loss as incurred. The Company
identifies and determines cost of each component/ part of property, plant and equipment separately, if the

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

164 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

component/ part has a cost which is significant to the total cost of the property, plant and equipment and has useful
life that is materially different from that of the remaining asset. These components are depreciated over their useful
lives; the remaining asset is depreciated over the life of the principal asset.
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, plant and equipment outstanding at each balance sheet date is
classified as capital advances and cost of assets not ready for use at the balance sheet date are disclosed under
capital work- in- progress is stated at cost less accumulated impairment loss.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate,
only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the cost
of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a separate assets are
derecognised when replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to statement of profit and loss during
the reporting period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation
The Company depreciates property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line
method. Leasehold assets are depreciated lower of lease period or life of the assets. The estimated useful lives of
assets are as follows:
Useful lives estimated by the management in years:
Particulars

Years

Factory buildings

15-30

Other buildings

3-60

Furniture and fixtures

10

Office equipments

3-5

Plant and equipment

3-21

Vehicles

5

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed periodically, at each reporting date. Further,
freehold land are carried at historical cost and is not depreciated.
De-recognition
An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal
or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition
of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset)
is included in the statement of profit and loss when the asset is derecognised.
2.9

Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition,
intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related
expenditure is reflected in the statement of profit and loss in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
Amortisation
Amortisation is recognised in the statement of profit and loss on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives
of the intangible assets.
The estimated useful life of assets are as follows:
Particulars

Years

Technical know-how fees

6-10

Capitalized software costs

3-5

Goodwill on business acquisition is not amortized but tested for impairment.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 165

Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever
there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation
method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in
the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in
accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the statement
of profit and loss unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value of another asset.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually
or at the cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed at each financial year end to determine
whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made
on a prospective basis.
De-recognition
Intangible assets are de-recognised either on their disposal or where no future economic benefits are expected from
their use. Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the statement of profit and
loss when the asset is derecognised.
2.10 Leases
The Company assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Company as a lessee
The Company applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-term leases
and leases of low-value assets. The Company recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use
assets representing the right to use the underlying assets.
Right-of-use assets
The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying asset
is available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment
losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of
lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement date
less any lease incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the
lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in section 2.18 (b) Impairment
of non-financial assets.
Lease Liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value
of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments (including in
substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives receivable, variable lease payments that depend on an index
or a rate, and amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. The lease payments also include the
exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Company and payments of penalties
for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Company exercising the option to terminate. Variable lease
payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognised as expenses (unless they are incurred to
produce inventories) in the period in which the event or condition that triggers the payment occurs.
In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease
commencement date if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement date,
the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made.
In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term,
a change in the lease payments (e.g., changes to future payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to
determine such lease payments) or a change in the assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset.
Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised as expense on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.

166 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

2.11 Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes
a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and
other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost also includes exchange
differences to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the borrowing costs.
2.12 Inventories
Inventories consist of raw materials, work-in-progress, finished goods, stock-in-trade and stores and spares.
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. However, materials and other items held
for use in the production of inventories are not written down below cost if the finished goods in which they will be
incorporated are expected to be sold at or above cost.
The cost of various categories of inventories is arrived at as follows:
 Stores, spares, raw materials, components and stock-in-trade - at rates determined on the moving weighted
average method.
 Goods in Transit – at actual cost.
 Work-in-progress and finished goods - at full absorption cost method which includes direct materials, direct
labour and manufacturing overheads. Cost is determined on weighted average method.
Cost includes expenditures incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs
incurred in bringing them to their existing location and condition.
Provision for obsolescence is made wherever necessary.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
The factors that the Company considers in determining the provision for slow moving, obsolete and other nonsaleable inventory include estimated shelf life, planned product discontinuances, price changes, ageing of inventory
and introduction of competitive new products, to the extent each of these factors impact the Company’s business
and markets. The Company considers all these factors and adjusts the inventory provision to reﬂect its actual
experience on a periodic basis.
2.13 Financial instruments
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity
instrument of another entity.
2.13.1 Initial recognition
The Company recognizes financial assets and financial liabilities when it becomes a party to the contractual
provisions of the instrument. All financial assets and liabilities are recognized at fair value on initial recognition,
except for trade receivables which are initially measured at transaction price. Transaction costs that are
directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities, that are not at fair
value through profit or loss, are added to the fair value on initial recognition.
2.13.2 Subsequent measurement
a.

Non-derivative financial instruments
(i)

Financial assets carried at amortised cost
A financial asset is subsequently measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business where
the objective is to hold the asset in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual
terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 167

(ii)

Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
A financial asset is subsequently measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if
it is held within a business where the objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash
flows and selling financial assets and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on
specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal
amount outstanding. The Company has made an irrevocable election for its investments which
are classified as equity instruments to present the subsequent changes in fair value in other
comprehensive income based on its business model. Further, in cases where the Company
has made an irrevocable election based on its business model, for its investments which are
classified as equity instruments, the subsequent changes in fair value are recognized in other
comprehensive income.

(iii)

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
A financial asset which is not classified in any of the above categories are subsequently fair valued
through profit or loss.

(iv)

Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are subsequently carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method,
For trade and other payables maturing within one year from the balance sheet date, the carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial instrument
and of allocating interest income or expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the
rate that exactly discounts future cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the financial
instrument, or where appropriate, a shorter period.
Classification as debt or equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified according to the
substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an
equity instrument.
Equity Instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company
after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct
issue costs.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are subsequently
measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method where the time value of money
is significant. Interest bearing bank loans, overdrafts are initially measured at fair value and are
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Any difference
between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is
recognised over the term of the borrowings in the statement of profit and loss.
For trade and other payables maturing within one year from the balance sheet date, the carrying amounts
approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
Off-setting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to
settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.

168 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

(v)

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Derecognition
A financial asset is primarily derecognised when:
•

The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or

•

The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed
an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under
a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the Company has transferred substantially all
the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company has neither transferred nor retained
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.

Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured
at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration
that the Company could be required to repay.
A financial liability is primarily derecognised when:

b.

•

The obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires, or

•

The existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange
or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a
new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement
of profit and loss.

Derivative financial instruments
The Company holds derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option
contracts including commodity contracts to mitigate the risk of changes in exchange rates on foreign
currency exposures and fluctuation in commodity prices. The counterparty for these contracts is
generally a bank.
Financial assets or financial liabilities, at fair value through profit or loss.
This category has derivative financial assets or liabilities which are not designated as hedges.
Although the Company believes that these derivatives constitute hedges from an economic perspective,
they may not qualify for hedge accounting under Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments. Any derivative that
is either not designated a hedge, or is so designated but is ineffective as per Ind AS 109, is categorized
as a financial asset or financial liability, at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivatives not designated as hedges are recognized initially at fair value and attributable transaction
costs are recognized in the statement of profit and loss when incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition,
these derivatives are measured at fair value through profit or loss and the resulting exchange gains
or losses are included in other income / expenses. Assets/ liabilities in this category are presented as
current assets/current liabilities if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realized within 12
months after the balance sheet date.
Certain commercial contracts may grant rights to the Company or the counterparties, or contain other
provisions that are considered to be derivatives. Such embedded derivatives are assessed at inception
of the contract and depending on their characteristics, accounted for as separate derivative instruments
and shown at their fair value in the balance sheet with changes in their fair value recognized through
profit or loss.

2.14 Fair value measurement of financial instruments
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption
that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
a)

In the principal market for the asset or liability, or

b)

In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 169

The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.
Fair value hierarchy:
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised
within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value
measurement as a whole:
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is
directly or indirectly observable
Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is
unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines
whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the
basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as
explained above.
In determining the fair value of its financial instruments, the Company uses a variety of methods and assumptions that
are based on market conditions and risks existing at each reporting date. The methods used to determine fair value
includes discounted cash flow analysis, available quoted market prices and dealer quotes. All methods of assessing
fair value result from general approximation of value and the same may differ from the actual realised value.
2.15 Cash flow statement
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, whereby profit for the period is adjusted for the
effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future operating
cash receipts or payments and item of income or expenses associated with investing or financing
cash flows. The cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities of the Company
are segregated.
2.16 Finance costs
Borrowing costs are recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss using the effective interest method. The associated
cash ﬂows are classiﬁed as ﬁnancing activities in the statement of cash ﬂows.
2.17 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
General
A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation
that is reliably estimable, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the
obligation. If the effect of time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected
future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the
risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is
recognised as a ﬁnance cost.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Company from a
contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. The provision is measured
at the present value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of
continuing with the contract. Before a provision is established, the Company recognises any impairment loss on the
assets associated with that contract.

170 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

Warranty provisions
Provisions for warranty-related costs are recognised when the product is sold to the customer. Initial recognition is
based on historical experience. The initial estimate of warranty-related costs is revised annually. Also, refer note 22.
Contingent Liabilities
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed by
the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Company or a
present obligation that is not recognized because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to
settle the obligation. A contingent liability also arises in extremely rare cases where there is a liability that cannot
be recognized because it cannot be measured reliably. The Company does not recognize a contingent liability but
discloses its existence in the financial statements.
Contingent assets
Contingent assets are not recognised or disclosed in financial statements since this may result in the recognition of
income that may never be realised. However, when the realisation of income is virtually certain, then the related asset
is not a contingent asset and is recognised.
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets are reviewed at each balance sheet.
2.18 Impairment
a.

Financial assets
Financial assets (other than at fair value) The Company assesses at each date of balance sheet whether a
financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. Ind AS 109 (‘Financial Instruments’) requires expected
credit losses to be measured through a loss allowance. The Company recognises lifetime expected losses
for all contract assets and / or all trade receivables that do not constitute a financing transaction. For all other
financial assets, expected credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the 12-month expected credit
losses or at an amount equal to the life time expected credit losses if the credit risk on the financial asset has
increased significantly since initial recognition. The Company provides for impairment upon the occurrence of
the triggering event.

b.

Non-financial assets
The Company assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be
impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Company
estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or
cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. Recoverable amount
is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable
amount.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are evaluated for recoverability whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the purpose of
impairment testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-inuse) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to
which the asset belongs.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized in the statement of profit
and loss is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the estimated
recoverable amount of the asset. An impairment loss is reversed in the statement of profit and loss if there
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss in case
of goodwill is not reversed. The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its revised recoverable amount,
provided that this amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of
any accumulated amortization or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in
prior years.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 171

2.19 Earnings per share
The Company presents basic and diluted Earnings per share for its ordinary shares. Basic earnings per equity
share is computed by dividing the net profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted
average number of equity shares outstanding during the year/period. Diluted earnings per equity share is
computed by dividing the net profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average
number of equity shares considered for deriving basic earnings per equity share and also the weighted average
number of equity shares that could have been issued upon conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares. The
dilutive potential equity shares are adjusted for the proceeds receivable had the equity shares been actually
issued at fair value (i.e. the average market value of the outstanding equity shares). Dilutive potential equity
shares are deemed converted as of the beginning of the period, unless issued at a later date. Dilutive potential
equity shares are determined independently for each period presented.
2.20 Retirement and other employee benefits
2.20.1 Gratuity - defined benefit plans
The present value of the obligation under defined benefit plans are determined based on actuarial valuation
using the Projected Unit Credit Method. In case of funded plans, the fair value of the plan assets is reduced
from the gross obligation under the defined benefit plans to recognize the obligation on a net basis.
Remeasurement comprising of actuarial gains and losses is recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI)
and is reflected in reserves and surplus as part of equity and is not eligible to be reclassified to profit or loss.
The Company recognises the following changes in the net defined benefit obligation as an expense in
statement of profit and loss:
•

Service cost including current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on curtailments and
settlements; and

•

Net interest expense or income.

2.20.2 Provident fund - Defined contribution scheme
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund and pension fund are defined contribution scheme. The
Company has no obligation, other than the contribution payable. The Company recognizes contribution
payable to provident fund and pension fund as expenditure, when an employee renders the related service.
2.20.3 Superannuation - Defined contribution scheme
Contribution to Superannuation Fund, is made at pre-determined rates to the Superannuation Fund Trust and
is charged to the statement of profit and loss during the period in which the employee renders the related
services. There are no other obligations other than the contribution payable to the Superannuation Fund Trust.
The corpus of which is invested with the Life Corporation of India.
2.20.4 Compensated absences
Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilised within the next 12 months, is treated as short-term
employee benefits. The Company measures the expected cost of such absences as the additional amount
that it expects to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the reporting date. The
Company presents the entire accumulated leave as a current liability in the balance sheet, since it does
not have an unconditional right to defer its settlement for 12 months after the reporting date. Such longterm compensated absences are provided for based on the actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit
method at each balance sheet date.
2.21 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with
an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cheque at hand/
remittance in transit and cash and deposit with bank.

172 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

2.22 Cash dividend
The Company recognises a liability to make cash distributions to equity holders of the Company when the
distribution is authorised and the distribution is no longer at the discretion of the Company. A corresponding
amount is recognised directly in equity. Final dividends on shares are recorded as a liability on the date of approval
by the shareholders and interim dividends are recorded as a liability on the date of declaration by the Company’s
Board of Directors.
2.23 Corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’) expenditure
The Company charges its CSR expenditure during the year to the statement of profit and loss.
2.24 Segment
Operating segments are identified as those components of the Company (a) that engage in business activities to
earn revenues and incur expenses (including transactions with any of the Company’s other components (b) whose
operating results are regularly reviewed by the Company’s Chief Executive Officer to make decisions about resource
allocation and performance assessment and (c) for which discrete financial information is available. The accounting
policies consistently used in the preparation of the financial statements are also applied to record revenue and
expenditure in individual segments.
The Company is engaged in the business relating to products, projects and services for electricity transmission and
related activities. These activities of the Company are reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker from
an overall business perspective, rather than reviewing its products/services as individual standalone components
and therefore subject to the same risk and reward and accordingly falls within single business segment.
2.25 Exceptional Items
Exceptional Items represents the nature of transactions which are not in recurring nature during the ordinary
course of business but lead to increase/ decrease in profit/ loss for the year/period.
2.26 New and amended standards (Ind AS)
The following amended standards as considered applicable were effective during the year, however, these
amendments had no impact on the financial statements of the Company
(i)

Interest Rate Benchmark Reform – Phase 2: Amendments to Ind AS 109, Ind AS 107, Ind AS 104 and
Ind AS 116
The amendments provide temporary reliefs which address the financial reporting effects
when an interbank offered rate (IBOR) is replaced with an alternative nearly risk-free interest
rate (RFR).
The amendments include the following practical expedients:
•

A practical expedient to require contractual changes, or changes to cash flows that are directly
required by the reform, to be treated as changes to a floating interest rate, equivalent to a movement in
a market rate of interest

•

Permit changes required by IBOR reform to be made to hedge designations and hedge documentation
without the hedging relationship being discontinued

•

Provide temporary relief to entities from having to meet the separately identifiable requirement when an
RFR instrument is designated as a hedge of a risk component

(ii)

Amendment to Ind AS 105, Ind AS 16 and Ind AS 28
The definition of “Recoverable amount” is amended such that the words “the higher of an asset’s fair value
less costs to sell and its value in use” are replaced with “higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal
and its value in use”. The consequential amendments are made in Ind AS 105, Ind AS 16 and Ind AS 28.

(iii)

Onerous Contracts – Costs of Fulfilling a Contract – Amendments to Ind AS 37
The amendments to Ind AS 37 specify which costs an entity needs to include when assessing whether a
contract is onerous or loss-making. The amendments apply a “directly related cost approach”. The costs that
relate directly to a contract to provide goods or services include both incremental costs for example direct

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 173

labour and materials and an allocation of other costs directly related to contract activities for example an
allocation of the depreciation charge for an item of property, plant and equipment used in fulfilling that
contract. General and administrative costs do not relate directly to a contract and are excluded unless they
are explicitly chargeable to the counterparty under the contract.
(iv)

Property, Plant and Equipment: Proceeds before Intended Use – Amendments to Ind AS 16
The amendments modified paragraph 17(e) of Ind AS 16 to clarify that excess of net sale proceeds of items
produced over the cost of testing, if any, shall not be recognised in the profit or loss but deducted from the
directly attributable costs considered as part of cost of an item of property, plant, and equipment.

2.27 Conceptual framework
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has notified the Amendments to Schedule III of the Companies Act,
2013 vide notification dated March 24, 2021, applicable for annual reporting periods beginning on or after the
April 1, 2021. Accordingly, the same is applicable for the Company in the current financial year beginning from
April 1, 2022. (refer note 2.1 D)
2.28 Recent Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
MCA has notified Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023 dated 31 March 2023 to
amend the following Ind AS which are effective from 01 April 2023.
(i)

Definition of Accounting Estimates - Amendments to Ind AS 8
The amendments clarify the distinction between changes in accounting estimates and changes in accounting
policies and the correction of errors. It has also been clarified how entities use measurement techniques and
inputs to develop accounting estimates.
The amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2023 and apply to
changes in accounting policies and changes in accounting estimates that occur on or after the start of that
period.
The amendments are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Company.

(ii)

Disclosure of Accounting Policies - Amendments to Ind AS 1
The amendments aim to help entities provide accounting policy disclosures that are more useful by replacing
the requirement for entities to disclose their ‘significant’ accounting policies with a requirement to disclose
their ‘material’ accounting policies and adding guidance on how entities apply the concept of materiality in
making decisions about accounting policy disclosures.
The amendments to Ind AS 1 are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 April 2023.
Consequential amendments have been made in Ind AS 107.
The Company is currently revisiting their accounting policy information disclosures to ensure consistency
with the amended requirements.

(iii)

Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction - Amendments to Ind AS 12
The amendments narrow the scope of the initial recognition exception under Ind AS 12, so that it no longer
applies to transactions that give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary differences.
The amendments should be applied to transactions that occur on or after the beginning of the earliest
comparative period presented. In addition, at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented, a
deferred tax asset (provided that sufficient taxable profit is available) and a deferred tax liability should also be
recognised for all deductible and taxable temporary differences associated with leases and decommissioning
obligations. Consequential amendments have been made in Ind AS 101. The amendments to Ind AS 12 are
applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 April 2023.
The Company is currently assessing the impact of the amendments.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

174 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

3.

Property, plant and equipment and Right-of-use (ROU) assets
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Property, plant and equipment (Owned Assets)

ROU Assets

Leasehold
Plant and
Total
Office
Furniture
Total
Factory
Other
Leasehold Office
Freehold
improveequipment equipment’s
and
Vehicles Owned
Vehicles ROU
land
buildings buildings
land
buildings
ments
fixtures
Assets
Assets
Gross carrying value
As at January 1, 2021

13.71

12.53

136.73

34.52

597.75

9.26

15.23

0.05

819.78

9.53

35.88

12.68

58.09

Additions

-

3.48

0.20

20.36

39.75

5.90

7.49

0.53

77.71

-

40.50

5.35

45.85

Reclassification

-

-

(0.07)

(0.17)

0.02

-

0.22

-

-

-

-

-

-

Reimbursement of
capital expenditure
(refer note (iii) below)

-

(6.25)

-

(6.03)

(4.86)

(4.94)

(4.33)

-

(26.41)

-

-

-

-

Disposals

-

(0.08)

(1.18)

(0.62)

(8.78)

(0.42)

(0.91)

-

(11.99)

-

(4.83)

(3.50)

(8.33)

13.71

9.68

135.68

48.06

623.88

9.80

17.70

0.58

859.09

9.53

71.55

14.53

95.61

Additions

-

9.92

7.28

7.30

129.54

2.43

5.24

0.34

162.05

-

2.76

5.80

8.56

Reimbursement of
capital expenditure
(refer note (iii) below)

-

(2.58)

(1.50)

(15.28)

(4.16)

(2.13)

(2.85)

-

(28.50)

-

-

-

-

As at March 31, 2022

Disposals

-

-

(0.17)

-

(9.74)

(0.28)

(0.26)

-

(10.45)

-

(3.31)

(2.82)

(6.13)

13.71

17.02

141.29

40.08

739.52

9.82

19.83

0.92

982.19

9.53

71.00

17.51

98.04

As at January 1, 2021

-

1.10

12.91

7.07

216.31

3.53

4.30

0.02

245.24

0.88

7.02

3.66

11.56

Depreciation charge
for the period

-

5.40

7.87

3.34

59.50

3.07

2.77

0.11

82.06

0.13

12.25

4.42

16.80

Reimbursement of
capital expenditure
(refer note (iii) below)

-

(2.81)

-

(0.13)

(0.49)

(1.44)

(0.52)

-

(5.39)

-

-

-

-

Reclassification

-

-

(0.02)

(0.16)

0.02

-

0.16

-

-

-

-

-

-

Disposals

-

(0.08)

(0.55)

(0.48)

(7.61)

(0.42)

(0.89)

-

(10.03)

-

(2.57)

(2.13)

(4.70)

As at March 31, 2022

-

3.61

20.21

9.64

267.73

4.74

5.82

0.13

311.88

1.01

16.70

5.95

23.66

Depreciation charge
for the year

-

2.60

6.47

1.87

50.75

1.77

2.14

0.15

65.75

0.09

11.72

4.28

16.09

Reimbursement of
capital expenditure
(refer note (iii) below)

-

(0.77)

(0.04)

(0.41)

(0.33)

(0.40)

(0.30)

-

(2.25)

-

-

-

-

As at March 31, 2023
Accumulated
depreciation

Disposals

-

-

(0.13)

-

(9.28)

(0.28)

(0.25)

-

(9.94)

-

(3.00)

(2.41)

(5.41)

As at March 31, 2023

-

5.44

26.51

11.10

308.87

5.83

7.41

0.28

365.44

1.10

25.42

7.82

34.34

Net carrying value
as at March 31, 2022

13.71

6.07

115.47

38.42

356.15

5.06

11.88

0.45

547.21

8.52

54.85

8.58

71.95

Net carrying value
as at March 31, 2023

13.71

11.58

114.78

28.98

430.65

3.99

12.42

0.64

616.75

8.43

45.58

9.69

63.70

Notes:
i)

There are no property, plant and equipment given on operating lease.

ii)

Pursuant to the Scheme of arrangement, as detailed in note 16(g), freehold land, leasehold land, factory buildings and other buildings has
been transferred to the Company from ABB India Limited. Out of such assets, as at March 31, 2023, the Company is in process of getting the
registered name transferred to the Company for gross block (deemed cost) amounting to ₹ 170.50 Crores and net carrying value amounting
to ₹ 138.49 Crores . Furthermore, the title deeds of aforementioned properties are not in the name of a promoter.

iii)

Reimbursement of capital expenditure: During the period ended March 31, 2022, Hitachi Energy Ltd (formerly known as Hitachi
ABB Power Grids Ltd) entered into an agreement with the Company towards reimbursement of ₹ 26.41 crore pertaining to capital
expenditure incurred by the Company post separation of Power Grids business as such cost was not to be incurred by the Company,
pursuant to global arrangement with ABB Ltd, Switzerland (‘ABB’) and Hitachi Ltd, Japan (‘Hitachi’) (being the shareholders
of Hitachi Energy Ltd). Accordingly, the reimbursement of ₹ 26.41 Crore receivable had been reduced from the gross block of
property, plant and equipment with a consequent impact on accumulated depreciation as on March 31, 2022 amounting to
₹ 5.39 crore which had been adjusted against the depreciation in the financial statements for the period ended March 31, 2022.
In furtherance to above, during the year ended March 31, 2023, the Company has further entered into an agreement for additional
reimbursement of ₹ 28.50 crore and the same has been reduced from the gross block of property, plant and equipment with a consequent
impact on accumulated depreciation as on March 31, 2023 amounting to ₹ 2.25 crore which has been adjusted against the depreciation in
the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023. Also refer note 40.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

4.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 175

Capital work-in-progress
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Amount
Gross carrying value
As at January 1, 2021

32.36

Additions

163.68

Capitalised during the period

(77.71)

As at March 31, 2022

118.33

Additions

92.39

Capitalised during the year

(162.05)

As at March 31, 2023

48.67

Capital work-in-progress ageing schedule
As at March 31, 2023

Projects in progress*
Projects temporarily suspended

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

34.99

6.29

2.81

4.58

48.67

-

-

-

-

-

34.99

6.29

2.81

4.58

48.67

* Projects in progress aged more than 2 years includes certain assets transferred to the Company, pursuant to the scheme of arrangement,
as detailed in note 16(g), are yet to be capitalised on account of pending approval from regulatory authorities. Further, there is no cost over
run in this regard.

As at March 31, 2022

Projects in progress**
Projects temporarily suspended

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

104.65

8.85

4.83

-

118.33

-

-

-

-

-

104.65

8.85

4.83

-

118.33

** Projects in progress aged more than 1 year includes certain assets transferred to the Company, pursuant to the scheme of arrangement,
as detailed in note 16(g), are yet to be capitalised on account of pending approval from regulatory authorities. Further, there is no cost over
run in this regard.

5.

Goodwill and other intangible assets
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Other intangible assets
Goodwill

Technical
Know-how fees

Capitalised
Software

Total

31.80

33.36

3.45

36.81

Additions

-

-

0.61

0.61

Disposals

-

-

-

-

31.80

33.36

4.06

37.42

Additions

-

-

0.07

0.07

Disposals

-

-

(0.17)

(0.17)

31.80

33.36

3.96

37.32

As at January 1, 2021

-

32.03

1.82

33.85

Amortisation charge for the period

-

1.33

0.66

1.99

Disposals

-

-

-

-

As at March 31, 2022

-

33.36

2.48

35.84

Amortisation charge for the year

-

-

0.57

0.57

Disposals

-

-

(0.17)

(0.17)

As at March 31, 2023

-

33.36

2.88

36.24

Net carrying value as at March 31, 2022

31.80

-

1.58

1.58

Net carrying value as at March 31, 2023

31.80

-

1.08

1.08

Gross carrying value
As at January 1, 2021

As at March 31, 2022

As at March 31, 2023
Accumulated amortisation/ impairment

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

176 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Goodwill impairment testing
The carrying amount of goodwill as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 has been attributed to power grids business
as a cash generating unit (‘CGU’) . The Company tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment on an annual basis
or in case of any indicator. The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations which
require the use of assumptions. The calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved
by the management. An average of the range of each assumption used as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 is
mentioned below.
Growth rate

5% - 6%

Operating margins

3% - 7%

Discount rate

7% - 7.5%

The above discount rate is based on the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) which represents the weighted
average return attributable to all the assets of the CGU. These estimates are likely to differ from future actual results of
operations and cash flows.
Based on the above assessment, there has been no impairment of goodwill.

6.

Loans
(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Non-current
March 31, 2022

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

3.49

2.18

2.19

3.24

3.49

2.18

2.19

3.24

Loans to employees

7.

Current

March 31, 2023

Other financial assets
(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Non-current

Current

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

13.59

13.63

3.83

4.11

Security deposits which have significant increase in
credit risk

-

-

0.31

0.31

Less: Impairment allowance on security deposits
which have significant increase in credit risk

-

-

0.31

0.31

-

-

-

-

Deposits with customers

-

-

5.00

5.64

Deposits with customers which have significant
increase in credit risk

-

-

2.22

2.39

Less: Impairment allowance on deposits with
customers which have significant increase in credit risk

-

-

2.22

2.39

Security deposits (refer note 40)

-

-

-

-

Other receivables (refer note 40)

-

-

15.03

32.73

Other receivables which have significant increase in
credit risk

-

-

1.61

0.83

Less: impairment allowance on Other receivables
which have significant increase in credit risk

-

-

1.61

0.83

-

-

-

-

Mark to market gain on forward contracts*

-

-

1.74

7.56

Mark to market gain on embedded derivatives*

-

-

8.87

3.06

13.59

13.63

34.47

53.10

* Mark to market gain is identified and accounted based on the underlying contracts. The derivatives are recognised at fair value through
statement of profit and loss.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

8.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 177

Non-current tax asset (net)
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023
Advance income-tax (net of provision for current tax)

9.

March 31, 2022

33.80

15.06

33.80

15.06

Income tax
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

Current tax

35.94

87.83

Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods

(1.39)

-

Deferred tax charge/ (credit)

2.37

(14.64)

36.92

73.19

The major components of income tax expense for the year/period:
Statement of profit and loss:

Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
Other comprehensive income (‘OCI’)
Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year/period:

(0.59)

(1.66)

(0.59)

(1.66)

Accounting profit before income tax

130.82

276.59

At India’s statutory tax rate of 25.17% for the year ended March 31, 2023 and period ended
March 31, 2022

32.93

69.62

Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes

1.84

3.57

Foreign tax credit ineligible

1.68

-

Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods (including impact of deferred tax)

0.47

-

Income tax expense at effective tax rate of 28.22% (March 31, 2022 : 26.46%)

36.92

73.19

Income tax (expense)/ credit to OCI
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate:

Adjustments in respect of current income tax:

Deferred tax assets/ (liabilities) relates to the following:

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets: Impact of difference between tax depreciation
and depreciation/ amortization charged for the financial reporting

(58.08)

(59.93)

Provision for doubtful debts and advances

56.86

56.68

Demerger related expenses

9.09

9.46

Expenditure debited to the statement of profit and loss but allowable for tax purpose in
subsequent years

24.00

28.62

Net deferred tax assets/ (liabilities)

31.87

34.83

Deferred tax assets

89.95

94.76

Deferred tax liabilities

(58.08)

(59.93)

Deferred tax assets/ (liabilities), net

31.87

34.83

Reconciliation of deferred tax assets/ (liabilities) (net)

10.

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Opening balance as at the commencement of the year/period

34.83

21.85

Tax income/ (expense) during the year/period recognised in profit or loss

(2.37)

14.64

Tax income/ (expense) during the year/period recognised in OCI

(0.59)

(1.66)

Tax income/ (expense) during the year/period recognised in retained earnings

(2.96)

12.98

Closing balance

31.87

34.83

Other non-current assets
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

1.90

6.04

1.90

6.04

(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
Capital advances

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

178 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

11.

Inventories (valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Raw materials and components (includes goods in transit of ₹ 32.34 Crores
(March 31, 2022: ₹ 40.72 Crores ))

369.66

355.57

Work-in-progress

332.22

288.34

Finished goods

113.07

59.26

Stock-in-trade

0.54

2.34

Stores and spares

2.41

1.74

817.90

707.25

In relation to inventories being carried at net realisable value (Rs 5.91) crore and ₹ 30.65 crore has been recorded as
(reversal) / expense for the year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 respectively.

12.

Trade receivables
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Non-current

Current

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Considered good

-

-

1,527.77

1,418.70

Trade receivables which have significant increase in
credit risk

-

-

146.41

132.35

65.98

80.20

-

-

65.98

80.20

1,674.18

1,551.05

-

-

146.41

132.35

65.98

80.20

-

-

-

-

1,527.77

1,418.70

Unsecured

Trade receivables - credit impaired

Less: Impairment allowance (allowance for bad
and doubtful debts)
Trade receivables which have significant increase in
credit risk
Trade receivables - credit impaired

1.

Trade receivables from related parties (refer note 40).

2.

No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with
any other person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies respectively in which
any director is a partner, a director or a member.

3.

Trade receivables are non-interest bearing.

4.

Trade receivables is inclusive of the retention receivables.

5.

Refer note 33(C)(iv) for details pertaining to credit risk.

6.

Refer note 38(b) for details pertaining to contract balances.

Trade receivables ageing Schedule
As at March 31, 2023
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled

Not due

Undisputed Trade Receivables – considered good

95.64 1,120.59

Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have
significant increase in credit risk

0.36

Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired

Less than 6 months
More than
1-2 years 2-3 years
6 months
- 1 year
3 years

Total

247.36

34.18

25.86

-

1.89

3.06

3.56

13.97

30.30

41.10

94.24

-

0.02

3.14

4.50

37.86

4.47

3.32

53.31

Disputed Trade Receivables – considered good

-

-

-

-

4.14

-

-

4.14

Disputed Trade Receivables – which have
significant increase in credit risk

-

-

-

-

1.95

-

50.22

52.17

-

-

-

-

1.17

0.02

11.48

12.67

96.00 1,122.50

253.56

42.24

84.95

34.79

106.12 1,740.16

Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired

Less: Impairment allowance
Total trade receivables

- 1,523.63

212.39
1,527.77

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 179

Trade receivables ageing Schedule
As at March 31, 2022
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled

Not due

Undisputed Trade Receivables – considered good

74.89 1,023.09

Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have
significant increase in credit risk

0.13

Less than 6 months
More than
1-2 years 2-3 years
6 months
- 1 year
3 years
276.74

28.05

9.05

-

1.71

3.79

3.62

25.31

9.40

- 1,411.82
30.20

74.16

Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired

-

1.99

10.25

27.17

27.00

-

-

66.41

Disputed Trade Receivables – considered good

-

-

1.15

5.37

-

-

0.36

6.88

Disputed Trade Receivables – which have
significant increase in credit risk

-

-

0.08

0.72

0.02

23.87

33.50

58.19

-

-

-

-

0.02

3.06

10.71

13.79

75.02 1,026.79

292.01

64.93

61.40

36.33

74.77 1,631.25

Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired
Less: Impairment allowance

212.55

Total trade receivables

13.

Total

1,418.70

Cash and cash equivalents
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

- on current accounts

146.53

70.64

Cheques on hand/ remittance in transit

16.66

15.26

163.19

85.90

Balances with banks

Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows

Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities:
Lease liabilities

Borrowings

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

March 31, 2023

Balance as at the beginning of the year/period

65.00

39.07

125.00

March 31, 2022
-

Cash inflows/ (outflows)

(17.84)

(18.79)

150.00

125.00

8.51

44.35

-

-

Non-cash changes
-Additions
-Accretion of interest

4.24

4.20

-

-Deletions

(0.60)

(3.83)

-

-

59.31

65.00

275.00

125.00

Balance as at the end of the year/period

14.

Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalent
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Unpaid dividend account

15.

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

0.10

0.04

0.10

0.04

Other current assets
(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Prepaid expenses

33.09

20.16

Contract assets (refer note 38(b) and note 40)

177.32

95.25

Contract assets which have significant increase in credit risk

9.27

8.85

Less: impairment allowance on contract assets which have significant increase in credit risk

9.27

8.85

-

-

Advances other than capital advances (refer note 40)

54.42

48.21

Advances other than capital advances which have significant increase in credit risk

0.12

0.12

Less: impairment allowance on advances other than capital advances which have significant
increase in credit risk

0.12

0.12

Balance with government authorities

-

-

261.41

249.42

526.24

413.04

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

180 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

16.

Equity
Share capital
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Equity shares

a.

Number of shares

Amount

5,00,00,000

10.00

Authorised share capital
At January 01, 2021
Changes during the period
At March 31, 2022
Changes during the year

10.00

-

10.00

Number of shares

Amount

4,23,81,675

8.48

Issued equity share capital
Equity shares of ₹ 2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid up
At January 01, 2021
Changes during the period
At March 31, 2022
Changes during the year
At March 31, 2023

c.

-

5,00,00,000

5,00,00,000

At March 31, 2023

b.

-

-

-

4,23,81,675

8.48

-

-

4,23,81,675

8.48

Terms/ rights attached to equity shares
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ₹ 2 per share. Each holder of equity shares
is entitled to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian Rupees.
The Board of directors have recommended dividend of ₹ 3.40 per equity share, which translates to a total dividend
of ₹ 14.41 Crores, for the year ended March 31, 2023. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject
to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets
of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of
equity shares held by the shareholders.

d.

Details of shareholders holding more than 5% of the shares in the Company
March 31, 2023
Name of the shareholders

March 31, 2022

Number of shares

% of holding

Number of shares

% of holding

3,17,86,256

75%

3,17,86,256

75.00%

Equity shares of ₹ 2 each, fully paid up
Hitachi Energy Ltd - the holding company

As per records of the Company and other declarations received from shareholders, the above shareholding
represents both legal and beneficial ownerships of shares.
e.

Shares held by holding/ ultimate holding Company and/ or their subsidiaries/ associates
Out of the equity shares issued by the Company, shares held by its holding company, ultimate holding Company and
their subsidiaries/ associates are as below:
March 31, 2023
Name of the shareholders

March 31, 2022

Number of shares

Amount

Number of shares

Amount

3,17,86,256

6.36

3,17,86,256

6.36

3,17,86,256

6.36

3,17,86,256

6.36

Equity shares of ₹ 2 each, fully paid up
Hitachi Energy Ltd - the holding company

f.

Shares held by promoters *
As at March 31, 2023
Name of the promoters

No. of shares at
the beginning of
the year

Changes
during
the year

No. of shares
at the end of
the year

% of total
Shares

% change
during
the year

3,17,86,256

-

3,17,86,256

75.00%

-

Equity shares of ₹ 2 each, fully paid up
Hitachi Energy Ltd - the holding company

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 181

As at March 31, 2022
Name of the promoters

No. of shares at
the beginning of
the period

Changes
during
the period

No. of shares
at the end of
the period

% of total
Shares

% change
during the
period

-

3,17,86,256

3,17,86,256

75.00%

100.00%

3,17,86,256

(3,17,86,256)

-

0.00%

(100.00%)

179

(179)

-

0.00%

(100.00%)

Equity shares of ₹ 2 each, fully paid up
Hitachi Energy Ltd - the holding company
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited - the holding company
ABB Switzerland Limited

g.

Aggregate number of shares issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years
immediately preceding the reporting date:
The Board of directors of ABB India Limited on March 5, 2019 approved the Scheme of Arrangement under Sections
230-232 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Scheme’) between ABB India Limited
(‘transferor Company’), ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited (“‘Resulting Company’ or‚ ‘APPSIL’’’) and
their respective shareholders and creditors for the demerger of Power Grid business from ABB India Limited into
the Company. The appointment date for the Scheme was April 01, 2019. The Scheme was approved by National
Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Bengaluru Bench vide its order dated. November 27, 2019 and a certified copy
has been filed by the Company with the Registrar of Companies, Bengaluru, on December 1, 2019 (effective date).
Pursuant to the aforesaid Scheme, on December 24, 2019 , the Company issued 42,381,675 number of fully paid
equity shares having face value of ₹ 2 each to the existing equity shareholders of ABB India Limited in the proportion
of 1 share for every 5 shares held. Further, 50,000 number of shares issued to the ABB India Limited at the time of
incorporation of the Company was cancelled as per the aforesaid Scheme.

17.

Other equity
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

a)

Opening balance
Changes during the year/period
Closing balance

b)

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

9.80

9.80

Securities premium

-

-

9.80

9.80

608.39

408.52

93.90

203.40

Retained earnings
Opening balance
Changes during the year/period:
Net profit for the year/period
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)

c)

1.74

4.95

Less: Appropriations during the year/period: Equity dividend

(12.72)

(8.48)

Closing balance

691.31

608.39

(1.56)

(1.56)

Amalgamation adjustment deficit account
Opening balance
Changes during the year/period
Closing balance

d)

-

(1.56)

(1.56)

0.18

0.18

-

-

0.18

0.18

507.10

507.10

Capital reserve
Opening balance
Changes during the year/period
Closing balance

e)

-

General reserve
Opening balance
Changes during the year/period

-

-

Closing balance

507.10

507.10

Total other equity

1,206.83

1,123.91

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

182 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Nature and purpose of other reserves
a)

Securities premium
Securities premium acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement shall be utilised in accordance with the provisions
of Companies Act, 2013.

b)

Retained earnings
Retained earnings are the profits of the Company earned till date net of appropriations/distributions, includes amount
acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement and other adjustments permitted as per the applicable regulations and
accounting standards.

c)

Amalgamation adjustment deficit account
Amalgamation adjustment deﬁcit account is the deficit between the carrying value of assets, liabilities and reserves
transferred to the Company and the consideration discharged by way of the New Equity Shares issued to the
shareholders of ABB India Limited pursuant to the demerger of Power Grid Business from ABB India Limited (refer
note 16(g)).

d)

Capital reserve
Capital reserve is acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement.

e)

General reserve
General reserve is acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement. The Company can use this reserve for payment
of dividend and issue of fully paid-up shares. As General reserve is created by transfer of one component of equity
to another and is not an item of other comprehensive income, items included in the General reserve will not be
subsequently reclassified to statement of profit and loss.

18.

Other financial liabilities
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Non-Current

Security deposits received
Unpaid dividend
Payable towards purchase of fixed assets (refer note 40)

Current

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

0.89

1.09

-

-

-

-

0.10

0.04

-

-

24.72

3.32

Employee related payables

1.31

2.08

52.40

39.63

Interest accrued but not due

-

-

0.05

0.01

Mark to market loss on forward contracts*

-

-

3.36

4.35

Mark to market loss on embedded derivatives*

-

-

6.38

5.50

Other payables (refer note 40)

-

-

36.07

41.64

2.20

3.17

123.08

94.49

* Mark to market loss is identified and accounted based on the underlying contracts. The derivatives are recognised at fair value through
statement of profit and loss.

19.

Borrowings
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

Bank loan (Unsecured)

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

275.00

125.00

275.00

125.00

The rate of interest for short term loans from banks ranges from 7.13% to 7.91% (March 31, 2022 - 4.05%).
Refer note 33(C) (iii) for details pertaining to interest rates and related risk.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

20.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 183

Trade payables
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

76.22

84.02

76.22

84.02

515.84

487.66

Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises*

Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
Acceptances
Other trade payables

922.56

1,047.32

1,438.40

1,534.98

1,514.62

1,619.00

1) Trade payables to related parties (refer note 40).
2) Refer note 33(C)(v) for details pertaining to liquidity risk.

*The Company has amounts due to Micro and Small Enterprises under The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
(MSMED Act) as at March 31, 2023 and as at March 31, 2022.
(i)

The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier at each accounting year/period
Principal amount

74.90

80.35

Interest

0.55

0.19

Principal amount

-

-

Interest

-

-

0.57

0.64

(iv) The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid for each accounting year/period

1.12

0.83

(v) The amount of further interest remaining due and payable for the earlier years

0.20

2.84

(vi) The amount (including interest) due as at each accounting year/period

76.22

84.02

(ii)

(iii)

The amount of interest paid by the Company along with the amounts of the payment made to
the supplier beyond the appointed day for each accounting year/period

The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which have
been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year/period).

The above disclosures are provided by the Company based on the information available with the Company in respect of
the registration status of its vendors/suppliers.
As at March 31, 2023, foreign currency trade payables amounting to ₹ 60.61 Crores (includes ₹ 13.64 Crores which are
payable from more than 3 years), towards purchase of goods and services, which are outstanding beyond permissible
time period stipulated under the Master Circular on Import of Goods and Services issued by Reserve Bank of India
(‘the RBI’), which states that payments against imports of goods are required to be made within 6 months from date of
shipment. Considering that the balances are outstanding for more than the stipulated time, the Company is in the process
of intimating the appropriate regulatory authorities and seeking requisite approvals for extensions. The management is
confident that required approvals would be received and penalties, if any that may be imposed on the Company would not
be material. Accordingly, no adjustments have been made by the management to these financial statements in this regard.
Trade payables Ageing Schedule
Outstanding for following periods from due date
of payment

As at March 31, 2023

Less than
More than
1-2 years 2-3 years
1 year
3 years

Unbilled

Not due

Total

Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small
enterprises

16.12

54.38

5.17

-

0.14

0.35

Total outstanding dues of creditors other than
micro enterprises and small enterprises

344.82

846.11

197.42

4.67

23.24

20.30 1,436.56

Disputed dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises

-

0.06

-

-

-

-

0.06

Disputed dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and
small enterprises

-

0.92

-

-

-

0.92

1.84

360.94

901.47

202.59

4.67

23.38

21.57

1514.62

76.16

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

184 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Outstanding for following periods from due date
of payment

As at March 31, 2022
Not due

-

72.80

7.52

1.05

2.37

0.22

300.94

948.07

171.86

82.62

17.31

12.51 1,533.31

Disputed dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises

-

0.06

-

-

-

-

0.06

Disputed dues of creditors other than micro enterprises
and small enterprises

-

1.67

-

-

-

-

1.67

300.94 1,022.60

179.38

83.67

19.68

Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small
enterprises
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro
enterprises and small enterprises

21.

Less than
More than
1-2 years 2-3 years
1 year
3 years

Unbilled

Total
83.96

12.73 1,619.00

Other current liabilities
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Billing in excess of contract revenue (refer note 38(b))

41.80

89.51

Statutory dues payable*

23.26

14.23

Advance from customer (refer note 38(b) and note 40)

468.73

193.51

533.79

297.25

* Statutory dues payable mainly includes contribution to Provident Fund, Goods and service tax (GST), Employee State Insurance,
withholding taxes etc.

22.

Provisions
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Provisions for employee benefits
Gratuity (refer note 32)

8.34

5.24

Compensated absences

27.92

24.09

Warranties

139.81

129.05

Loss orders

19.13

15.92

195.20

174.30

Other provisions

Nature of provisions:
i)

Warranties: The Company provides warranties for its products, systems and services, undertaking to repair or
replace the items that fail to perform satisfactorily during the warranty period. Provision represents the amount of
the expected cost based on technical evaluation and past experience of meeting such obligations. It is expected
that this expenditure will be incurred over the contractual warranty period.

ii)

Loss orders: A provision for expected loss on construction contracts is recognised when it is probable that the
contract costs will exceed total contract revenue. For all other contracts loss order provisions are made when the
unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation under the contract exceed the currently estimated economic benefits.

Details of changes in provisions during the year (Figures in brackets are in respect of the previous period)
Class of provisions
Warranties

Loss orders

As at
April 01, 2022

Additions

Amounts
used

Unused Amounts
As at
reversed March 31, 2023

129.05

35.95

11.47

13.72

139.81

(106.56)

(47.62)

(11.60)

(13.53)

(129.05)

15.92

16.54

12.89

0.44

19.13

(33.23)

(12.15)

(28.99)

(0.47)

(15.92)

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

23.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 185

Revenue from operations
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

3,528.74

3,402.27

711.51

1,226.20

Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of products
Revenue from execution of contracts for projects and services
Sale of services

94.25

132.20

4,334.50

4,760.67

Scrap sales

28.13

37.14

Commission income

16.38

8.90

Income from development services and other services

89.25

75.61

Other operating revenues

Others

Revenue from operations*

0.25

1.64

134.01

123.29

4,468.51

4,883.96

* Also refer note 37, 38 and 40

24.

Other income
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

Liabilities/ provisions no longer required written back (refer note 40)
Exchange and commodity rate difference (net)

For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

14.55

41.49

-

24.51

0.57

0.94

Interest income:
Interest on security deposit and others
Others

25.

0.02

-

15.14

66.94

Cost of raw materials, components consumed and project bought outs
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023
Inventory at the beginning of the year/period
Add : Purchases during the year/period (refer note 40)
Less : Inventory at the end of the year/period

26.

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

355.57

270.45

2,735.33

2,865.21

369.66

355.57

2,721.24

2,780.09

(Increase)/decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

Opening stock
- Finished goods

59.26

10.72

- Work-in-progress

288.34

211.79

- Stock-in-trade

2.34

0.28

349.94

222.79

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

186 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

Closing stock

27.

- Finished goods

113.07

59.26

- Work-in-progress

332.22

288.34

- Stock-in-trade

0.54

2.34

445.83

349.94

(95.89)

(127.15)

Employee benefits expense
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

365.90

426.27

Salaries, wages and bonus
Gratuity expense (refer note 32)

6.42

8.48

Contribution to provident fund

12.85

14.69

Contribution to superannuation fund

6.76

8.21

Contribution to other funds*

4.22

5.19

Staff welfare expenses

19.04

21.41

Training, recruitment and transfer expenses

2.10

2.50

417.29

486.75

* Includes contribution to Employee Pension Scheme, Labour Welfare Fund and Employee State Insurance.

28.

Depreciation and amortisation expense
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

29.

For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (refer note 3)

63.50

76.67

Amortisation of intangible assets (refer note 5)

0.57

1.99

Depreciation of right-of-use assets (refer note 3)

16.09

16.80

80.16

95.46

Finance costs
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

Interest expenses

34.27

31.51

Interest on income tax

0.78

3.16

Bill discounting and other charges

0.80

2.52

Interest on lease liabilities (refer note 36(b))

4.24

4.20

40.09

41.39

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

30.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 187

Other expenses*
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

Consumption of stores and spares

34.07

38.98

Packing expenses

15.65

18.55

Royalty and technology fees

147.35

199.73

Freight and forwarding

163.80

129.40

Postage and telephone

1.30

1.48

Commission (other than sole selling agent)

3.35

3.87

Power and fuel

65.40

73.37

Travelling and conveyance

50.34

40.80

Insurance

20.43

28.05

Rates and taxes (net)

6.54

9.64

Rent (refer note 36(b))

3.68

6.54

Repairs and maintenance
Buildings

2.13

3.25

Plant and machinery

29.09

29.55

Others

6.73

6.30

Provision for doubtful debts and advances/ bad debts/ advances written off

14.49

26.03

Loss on sale of fixed assets (net)

0.47

1.42

Printing and stationery

1.59

1.46

Bank charges

14.05

11.40

Legal and professional fees**

56.79

56.23

Corporate social responsibility expenditure (refer note 41)

4.25

3.58

Information technology expenses

94.55

133.08

Exchange and commodity rate difference (net)

27.09

-

Director’s fees and commission

1.45

1.29

Services from third parties

53.43

62.38

Testing and inspection charges

29.43

10.68

Seminar and publicity expenses

1.89

1.46

Group management fees

61.89

94.50

Miscellaneous

42.52

35.86

953.75

1,028.88

* Also refer note 40.
** Includes auditor’s remuneration (exclusive of goods and service tax and inclusive of out-of-pocket expenses and Technology
surcharge) towards the following:
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

Statutory audit fee

0.52

0.48

Tax audit fee

0.28

0.27

Limited review fee

0.39

0.36

Group audit fee

0.15

0.14

Other certification fee

0.15

-

Reimbursement of expenses

0.03

-

1.52

1.25

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

188 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

31.

Earnings per share (EPS)
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

93.90

203.40

4,23,81,675

4,23,81,675

Earnings
Profit attributable to equity shareholders

Shares
Weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year/period - basic
Dilutive effect on shares
Weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year/period - diluted

Earnings per share of par value ₹ 2 each - Basic and diluted (in ₹)

32.

-

-

4,23,81,675

4,23,81,675

22.16

47.99

Post-employment benefit plan
Gratuity plan :
Gratuity is payable to all eligible employees of the Company as per the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 or as
per the Company’s scheme, whichever is higher. The plan assets were held by Asea Brown Boveri Ltd Employees Gratuity
Fund on behalf of the Company. During the period ended March 31, 2022, the aforesaid funds has been transferred to the
APPSIL Employees Gratuity Trust (The said trust was duly set up by Company on September 1, 2020 and the same was
approved on February 22, 2021 by Hon’ble Commissioner of Income Tax).
Under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, every employee who has completed five years or more of service gets gratuity on
departure at 15 days salary (last drawn salary) for each completed year of service. The level of benefits provided depends
on the member’s length of service and salary at retirement age. The Gratuity scheme provides for a lump sum payment
made on exit either by way of retirement, death, disability or voluntary withdrawal. The benefits are defined on the basis of
final salary and the period of service and paid as lump sum at exit.
Assumptions relating to future salary increases, attrition, interest rate for discount and overall expected rate of return
on assets have been considered based on relevant economic factors such as inflation, market growth and other factors
applicable to the period over which the obligation is expected to be settled.
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Gratuity provision

8.34

5.24

Total

8.34

5.24

Gratuity
The following table sets out movement in defined benefits liability and the amount recognised
in the financial statements:

i)

Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets :
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Defined benefit
obligation

Fair value of plan
assets

Net defined
benefit liability

As at January 01, 2021

84.42

71.26

13.16

Service cost

7.85

-

7.85

Net interest expense

5.97

5.34

0.63

Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss (Note 27)

13.82

5.34

8.48

Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest
expense)

-

2.68

(2.68)

Remeasurement (gains)/ losses in other comprehensive income:

Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions

(5.45)

-

(5.45)

Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments

1.52

-

1.52

Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income

(3.93)

2.68

(6.61)

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 189

All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Defined benefit
obligation

Fair value of plan
assets

Net defined
benefit liability

-

-

-

Contributions by employer
Benefits paid

(9.79)

-

(9.79)

As at March 31, 2022

84.52

79.28

5.24

Service cost

6.10

-

6.10

Net interest expense

5.56

5.24

0.32

Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss (Note 27)

11.66

5.24

6.42

Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest
expense)

-

0.14

(0.14)

-

(2.68)

0.14

(2.33)

Remeasurement (gains)/ losses in other comprehensive income:

Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions

(2.68)

Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments

0.49

Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income

(2.19)

Contributions by employer

ii)

0.49

-

-

-

Benefits paid

(5.37)

(4.38)

(0.99)

As at March 31, 2023

88.62

80.28

8.34

Amount recognized in balance sheet
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

Present value of funded obligations

iii)

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

88.62

84.52

Fair value of plan assets

80.28

79.28

Net funded obligation

(8.34)

(5.24)

Net defined benefit liability recognised in balance sheet

(8.34)

(5.24)

Expense recognised in statement of profit and loss (refer note 27)
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

iv)

For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

Current service cost

6.10

7.85

Net interest expense

0.32

0.63

6.42

8.48

Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

Actuarial (gain)/ loss on defined benefit obligation
Return on plan assets excluding interest income

v)

For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

(2.19)

(3.93)

(0.14)

(2.68)

(2.33)

(6.61)

The major categories of plan assets of the fair value of the total plan assets are as follows:
Investments
Scheme of insurance - Conventional products

100.00%

100.00%

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

190 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

vi)

The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity obligations are shown below:
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

7.20%

6.80%

Discount rate
Future salary increases
Employee turnover

Mortality rate

vii)

7.75%

7.75%

Age 20-24 - 12%

Age 20-24 - 12%

Age 25-34 - 9%

Age 25-34 - 9%

Age 35-44 - 7%

Age 35-44 - 7%

Age 45-54 - 4%

Age 45-54 - 4%

Thereafter 2%

Thereafter 2%

Mortality (2006-08) Ult.

Mortality (2006-08) Ult.

The following payments are expected contributions to the defined benefit plan in future years
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)

8.34

5.24

Between 2 and 5 years

40.51

39.71

Beyond 5 years

59.94

55.16

Total expected payments

108.79

100.11

The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 8 years
(March 31, 2022: 8 years)
viii)

A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption is as shown below:
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
As at March 31, 2023

As at March 31, 2022

Discount
rate

Future salary
increases

Discount
rate

Future salary
increases

1% increase

(6.11)

6.89

(6.02)

6.78

1% decrease

6.99

(6.14)

6.91

(6.03)

Assumptions
Sensitivity analysis

Impact on defined benefit obligation
The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined
benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
The sensitivity analyses are based on a change in a significant assumption, keeping all other assumptions constant.
The sensitivity analyses may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is
unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation from one another.

33.

Financial instruments
This section gives an overview of the significance of financial instruments for the Company and provides additional
information on balance sheet items that contain financial instruments.
The details of significant accounting policies, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis
on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liabilities and equity
instrument are disclosed in the financial statements.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

A.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 191

Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
The carrying amount of all financial assets and liabilities appearing in the financial statements is reasonable
approximation of fair value. The following tables presents the carrying value and fair value / amortised cost of each
category of financial assets and liabilities:
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Carrying and Fair Value / amortised cost

Particulars

As at March 31, 2023

As at March 31, 2022

Financial assets at amortised cost :
Loans (refer note 6)

5.68

5.42

Other financial assets (refer note 7)

37.45

56.11

Trade receivables (refer note 12)

1,527.77

1,418.70

163.19

85.90

0.10

0.04

10.61

10.62

1,744.80

1,576.79

Cash and cash equivalents (refer note 13)
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalent (refer note 14)
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss :
Derivative instruments (refer note 7)
Total financial assets
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Borrowings (refer note 19)
Trade payables (refer note 20)

275.00

125.00

1,514.62

1,619.00

Lease liabilities (refer note 36(b))

59.31

65.00

Other financial liabilities (refer note 18)

115.54

87.81

9.74

9.85

1,974.21

1,906.66

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss :
Derivative instruments (refer note 18)
Total financial liabilities

Valuation technique and significant unobservable inputs:
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments
that are (a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are
disclosed in the financial statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining
fair value, the Company has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting
standard. An explanation of each level follows underneath the table.
i)

The management assessed the trade receivables, trade payables, loans, cash and cash equivalents,
borrowings, other financial assets and other financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due
to the short-term maturities of these instruments.

ii)

The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could
be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The
following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
(a)

Management uses its best judgement in estimating the fair value of its financial instruments. However,
there are inherent limitations in any estimation technique. Therefore, for substantially all financial
instruments, the fair value estimates presented above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that
the Company could have realised or paid in sale transactions as of respective dates. As such, fair value
of financial instruments subsequent to the reporting dates may be different from the amounts reported
at each reporting date.

(b)

Lease liabilities are carried at discounted value using incremental borrowing rate.

(c)

The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with banks/financial institutions. Foreign
currency forward contracts are valued using valuation techniques which employs the use of market
observable inputs using present value calculations. The model incorporates various inputs including
the deal specific fundamental, market conditions, maturity period, transaction size, comparable trades,
foreign currency spot and forward rates.

(d)

Embedded foreign currency are measured similarly to the foreign currency forward contracts. The
embedded derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts which are separated from long-term sales
contracts and purchase contracts where the transaction currency differs from the functional currencies
of the involved parties. These contracts require physical delivery and will be held for the purpose of the
delivery of the commodity in accordance with the buyers’ expected sale requirements. These contracts
have embedded foreign exchange derivatives that are required to be separated.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

192 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

B.

Fair value hierarchy
The following table presents the fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis:
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

Amount

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Derivative instruments (refer note 7) - As at March 31, 2023

10.61

-

10.61

-

Derivative instruments (refer note 7) - As at March 31, 2022

10.62

-

10.62

-

Derivative instruments (refer note 18) - As at March 31, 2023

9.74

-

9.74

-

Derivative instruments (refer note 18) - As at March 31, 2022

9.85

-

9.85

-

Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss :

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss :

There have been no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 for the year/period ended March 31, 2023 and
March 31, 2022.
C.

Financial risk management
The Company’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other
payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to support its operations. The Company’s principal financial
assets include trade and other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents that derive directly from its operations.
The Company is exposed to market risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The Company’s senior
management oversees the management of these risks. The Company’s senior management is supported by a Risk
management committee that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework
for the Company. The Risk management committee provides assurance to the Company’s senior management
that the Company’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial
risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with the Company’s policies and risk objectives. All
derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate
skills, experience and supervision. It is the Company’s policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes
may be undertaken. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are
summarised below.
(i)

Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of
changes in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other
price risk, such as equity price risk and commodity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include
loans and borrowings, trade payables, deposits, investments, trade receivables, other financial assets and
derivative financial instruments.
Commodity contracts
The Company uses commodity future contracts to hedge risk against fluctuation in commodity prices. The
following are outstanding future contracts entered into by the Company.
Year

(ii)

Commodity

Number of contracts (Net buy)

Contractual quantity (Net buy)

As at March 31, 2023

Copper

5

17 MT

As at March 31, 2023

Aluminum

4

25 MT

As at March 31, 2022

Copper

30

584 MT

As at March 31, 2022

Aluminum

6

225 MT

Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of
changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates
relates primarily to the Company’s operating activities. The Company’s risk management policy is to hedge
foreign currency exposures above certain thresholds.
The Company operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency
transactions. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and
liabilities denominated in a currency that is not Company’s functional currency (₹).

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

a)

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 193

Unhedged foreign currency exposure
The following table analyses the unhedged portion of foreign currency exposure:
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

USD

SEK

EUR

CHF

BTN

Others

1.51

0.94

0.11

0.27

21.52

39.22

123.75

7.42

9.40

24.30

21.52

22.11

Receivables
As at March 31, 2023
Foreign Currency (In Crores)
Indian rupees (In Crores)
Impact on profit and loss:
1% increase

1.24

0.07

0.09

0.24

0.22

0.22

1% decrease

(1.24)

(0.07)

(0.09)

(0.24)

(0.22)

(0.22)

As at March 31, 2022
Foreign Currency (In Crores)

1.22

0.97

0.27

0.23

15.51

2.35

Indian rupees (In Crores)

92.75

7.93

22.82

18.59

15.51

10.55

Impact on profit and loss:
1% increase

0.93

0.08

0.23

0.19

0.16

0.11

1% decrease

(0.93)

(0.08)

(0.23)

(0.19)

(0.16)

(0.11)

Particulars

USD

CHF

SEK

EUR

CNY

Others

Foreign Currency (In Crores)

0.86

0.66

5.67

0.43

1.38

34.53

Indian rupees (In Crores)

70.61

59.00

45.01

38.24

16.49

13.55

Payables
As at March 31, 2023

Impact on profit and loss:
1% increase

0.71

0.59

0.45

0.38

0.16

0.14

1% decrease

(0.71)

(0.59)

(0.45)

(0.38)

(0.16)

(0.14)

As at March 31, 2022
Foreign Currency (In Crores)

1.20

0.67

7.32

0.49

2.94

7.71

Indian rupees (In Crores)

91.23

54.66

59.58

41.60

34.98

6.45

Impact on profit and loss:
1% increase

0.91

0.55

0.60

0.42

0.35

0.06

1% decrease

(0.91)

(0.55)

(0.60)

(0.42)

(0.35)

(0.06)

BDT

BTN

LKR

NPR

Foreign Currency (In Crores)

4.03

105.19

6.22

0.29

Indian rupees (In Crores)

3.06

105.19

1.55

0.18

Particulars
Cash and cash equivalents
As at March 31, 2023

Impact on profit and loss:
1% increase

0.03

1.05

0.02

0.00

1% decrease

(0.03)

(1.05)

(0.02)

(0.00)

Particulars

BDT

BTN

LKR

NPR

Foreign Currency (In Crores)

0.07

11.44

1.75

-

Indian rupees (In Crores)

0.06

11.44

0.44

-

Cash and cash equivalents
As at March 31, 2022

Impact on profit and loss:
1% increase

-

0.11

-

-

1% decrease

-

(0.11)

-

-

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

194 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

(b)

Forward contracts outstanding:
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023
Currency

Number of
Contracts

March 31, 2022

Amount
in Foreign
Currency Crores

(₹ in
Crores)

Number of
Contracts

Amount
in Foreign
Currency Crores

(₹ in
Crores)

Exports
GBP

1

0.02

2.18

-

-

-

CHF

4

0.11

9.88

9

0.17

13.74

EUR

13

0.38

34.33

11

0.32

27.02

SEK

-

-

-

1

1.87

15.38

USD

100

4.64

384.07

120

6.35

489.94

ZAR

-

-

-

1

0.55

430.46

March 31, 2023
Currency

Number of
Contracts

2.53
548.61

March 31, 2022

Amount
in Foreign
Currency Crores

(₹ in
Crores)

Number of
Contracts

Amount
in Foreign
Currency Crores

(₹ in
Crores)

Imports
CHF

13

0.72

66.30

13

1.21

102.90

EUR

1

0.03

3.06

4

0.10

8.42

SEK

22

3.37

27.53

50

8.71

72.11

USD

7

0.68

56.60

12

0.61

47.14

CNY

2

0.34

4.17

2

0.59

157.66

(iii)

7.06
237.63

Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to changes in interest rates relates
primarily to the Company’s outstanding working capital facility obtained from banks.
The exposure of the Company’s borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting year/period are
as follows:
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A. (Rate of Interest - 7.13%)

100.00

-

JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A. (Rate of Interest - 7.19%)

75.00

-

Bank of America (Rate of Interest - 7.61% (March 31, 2022: 4.05%)

75.00

125.00

Deutsche Bank N.A. (Rate of Interest - 7.91%)

25.00

-

275.00

125.00

The interest rate is fixed, hence there is no interest rate risk applicable for the Company.
(iv)

Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or
customer contract, leading to a financial loss. Financial instruments that are subject to credit risk and
concentration thereof principally consist of loan receivables, trade receivables, derivatives, cash and
cash equivalents, bank balances and other financial assets of the Company, as well as credit exposure
to customers.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of the financial assets. The objective
of managing counterparty credit risk is to prevent losses in financial assets. The Company assesses
the credit quality of the counterparties, taking into account their financial position, past experience and
other factors.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

a)

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 195

Trade receivables and financial assets
The Company’s customer profile consists of a large number of customers spread across diverse
industries include public sector enterprises, state owned companies and large private corporates.
Accordingly, the Company’s customer credit risk is low. The Company’s projects business
comprises long-term contracts which have an execution period exceeding one year. General
payment terms include mobilisation advance, monthly progress payments with a credit period
ranging from 0 to 90 days and certain retention money to be released at the end of the project. In
some cases, retentions are substituted with bank/corporate guarantees.
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade
receivable. Under the simplified approach, the Company tracks changes in credit risk. Further, it
recognizes impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from
initial recognition.
The Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on the portfolio of
trade receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the
expected life of the trade receivable and is adjusted for forward looking estimates. At year end,
the historical observed default rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates
are analyzed.
Individual receivables which are known to be uncollectible are written off by reducing the carrying
amount of trade receivable and the amount of the loss is recognised in the statement of profit and
loss within other expenses.
Specific allowance for loss has also been provided by the management based on expected
recovery on individual customers.
The provision provided in books for trade receivables overdue:
Reconciliation of loss allowance
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Balance at the beginning of the year/period

Particulars

212.55

209.07

Add: Additional ECL/ specific provision

25.09

28.81

Less: Utilisation/ reversal of ECL/ specific provision

25.25

25.33

Balance at the end of the year/period

212.39

212.55

Management does not expect any significant loss from non-performance by counterparties on credit
granted during the financial year that has not been provided for.
b)

Other than trade receivables and financial assets
Management believes that the parties from which the receivables are due have strong capacity to
meet the obligations and risk of default is negligible or nil, accordingly only specific allowance is
made and no expected credit loss has been recorded.

c)
(v)

Credit risk from balances with bank and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s
treasury department in accordance with the Company’s policy.

Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of
liquidity risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per
requirements. The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility
through the use of bank overdrafts. Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash
and marketable securities and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit
facilities to meet obligations when due and to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the
underlying businesses, Company maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed
credit lines.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

196 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual
undiscounted payments.
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

On demand Less than 1 year More than 1 year

Total

As at March 31, 2023
Non-derivatives
Borrowings

-

275.00

-

275.00

Other financial liabilities

-

113.34

2.20

115.54

Lease liabilities

-

16.45

66.51

82.96

Trade payables

-

1,514.62

-

1,514.62

Total non-derivative liabilities

-

1,919.41

68.71

1,988.12

Embedded derivatives

-

6.38

-

6.38

Foreign currency forward contracts

-

3.36

-

3.36

Total derivative liabilities

-

9.74

-

9.74

Derivatives (net settled) (refer note 18)

As at March 31, 2022
Non-derivatives
Borrowings

-

125.00

-

125.00

Other financial liabilities

-

84.64

3.17

87.81

Lease liabilities

-

17.00

74.36

91.36

Trade payables

-

1,619.00

-

1,619.00

Total non-derivative liabilities

-

1,845.64

77.53

1,923.17

Embedded derivatives

-

5.50

-

5.50

Foreign currency forward contracts

-

4.35

-

4.35

Total derivative liabilities

-

9.85

-

9.85

Derivatives (net settled) (refer note 18)

34.

Capital management
For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital, securities premium and
all other equity reserves attributable to the shareholders of the Company. Net debt includes borrowings, trade payables,
lease liabilities and other financial liabilities net of cash and cash equivalents. The primary objective of the Company’s
capital management is to maximise the shareholder value.
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the
requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend
payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Company monitors capital using a
gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt.
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

March 31, 2023

Borrowings

275.00

125.00

1,514.62

1,619.00

Lease liabilities

59.31

65.00

Other financial liabilities

125.28

97.66

Less: Cash and cash equivalents

163.19

85.90

Net Debt

1,811.02

1,820.76

Total equity

1,215.31

1,132.39

Capital and net debt

3,026.33

2,953.15

60%

62%

Trade payables

Gearing ratio

March 31, 2022

In order to achieve this overall objective, the Company’s capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure
that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure
requirements. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended
March 31, 2023.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

35.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 197

Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
Contingent liabilities (Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts)
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

Other matters

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

47.44

50.11

47.44

50.11

The Company does not have any contingent assets at the balance sheet date.

36.

a)

The Company is contesting the demands and the management believes that its position will likely be upheld in the
various appellate authorities/ courts. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of this proceeding will not
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position.

b)

In respect of the above contingent liabilities, the future cash outflows are determinable only on receipt of judgement
pending at various forums/ authorities.

c)

The Supreme court of India in the month of February 2019 had passed a judgement relating to definition of wages
under the Provident Fund Act, 1952. The management is of the view that there are interpretative challenges on the
application of the judgement retrospectively. Based on the legal advice and in the absence of reliable measurement
of the provision for earlier periods, the Company has made a provision for provident fund contribution pursuant to the
judgement only from the date of Supreme Court Order. The Company will evaluate its position and update its provision,
if required, on receiving further clarity on the subject, the Company does not expect any material impact of the same.

d)

The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and postemployment benefits received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the
Gazette of India. However, the date on which the Code will come into effect has not been notified. The Company
will assess the impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period the
Code becomes effective.

Commitments
(a)

Capital commitments
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on account of capital commitments and
not provided for (net of advances)

(b)

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

26.71

56.95

Leases
The Company has lease contracts for building, leasehold land and vehicles used in its operations. Leases of building
have lease terms between 2 and 15 years, land is 98 years and motor vehicles have lease terms between 4 and 5
years. The Company’s obligations under its leases are secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets. Generally,
the Company is restricted from assigning and subleasing the leased assets and some contracts require the Company
to maintain certain financial ratios. Some of the lease agreements have escalation clause ranging from 0% to 7%
(March 31, 2022: 0% to 7%). There are several lease contracts that include extension and termination options and
variable lease payments.
The Company also has certain leases of machinery/Computer equipments with lease terms of 12 months or less and
with low value. The Company applies the ‘short-term lease’ and ‘lease of low-value assets’ recognition exemptions
for these leases. The Company applied a single discount rate to leases of similar economic environment with a
similar end date and excluded the initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of
initial application.
Refer note 3 for carrying value of right of use assets recognised on date of transition and the movements thereof
during the year ended March 31, 2023.
Below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the year/period:
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Opening lease liabilities

65.00

39.07

Additions

8.51

44.35

Accretion of interest

4.24

4.20

(17.84)

(18.79)

Payments
Deletions

(0.60)

(3.83)

Closing lease liabilities

59.31

65.00

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

198 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Current

12.69

12.16

Non-current

46.62

52.84

The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss for the year/period ended:
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets

16.09

16.80

Interest expense on lease liabilities

4.24

4.20

Expense relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
(included in other expenses)

3.68

6.54

24.01

27.54

The Company had total cash outflows for leases of ₹ 21.52 Crores for the year ended March 31, 2023
(₹ 25.33 Crores for the period ended March 31, 2022).
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 33(C)(v).
The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 6% to 9%.

37.

Segment information
An operating segment is a component that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur
expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the other components, whose operating
results are regularly reviewed by the Company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) to make decisions about resource
allocation and performance assessment and for which discrete financial information is available. The Company is engaged
in the business relating to products, projects and services for electricity transmission and related activities. Accordingly,
the Company’s activities and business is reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker from an overall business
perspective, rather than reviewing its products/services as individual standalone components. Thus, the Company has only
one operating segment, and has no reportable segment in accordance with Ind AS- 108 ‘Operating Segments’.
(i)

The entity wide disclosures as required by Ind AS-108 are as follows:
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 Months
period ended
March 31, 2022

3,528.74

3,402.27

711.51

1,226.20

Sale of services

94.25

132.20

Other operating revenues

134.01

123.29

Revenue from operations

4,468.51

4,883.96

Description
Sale of products
Revenue from execution of contracts for projects and services

(ii)

Geographical information
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 Months
period ended
March 31, 2022

India

3,279.89

3,760.94

Other countries*

1,188.62

1,123.02

4,468.51

4,883.96

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

763.77

776.52

Revenue from customers

* Exports to any single country are not material to be disclosed.
Non-current assets**
India
Other countries*

0.13

0.39

763.90

776.91

** Non current assets does not include deferred tax assets, financial assets and non-current tax assets.

(iii)

No customer individually accounted for more than 10% of the revenues for the year ended March 31, 2023
(March 31, 2022: Power Grid Corporation of India Limited account for more than 10% of Company’s total revenue
from operations). Also refer note 401.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

38.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 199

Revenue from contracts with customers
a)

Disaggregated revenue information
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 Months
period ended
March 31, 2022

India

3,279.89

3,760.94

Other countries*

1,188.62

1,123.02

4,468.51

4,883.96

Revenue by geography

* Exports to any single country are not material to be disclosed.
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 Months
period ended
March 31, 2022

3,528.74

3,402.27

28.13

37.14

Revenue from execution of contracts for projects and services

711.51

1,226.20

Sale of services

94.25

132.20

Other operating revenue (Other than scrap sales)

105.88

86.15

4,468.51

4,883.96

Revenue by offerings/ timing
Point in time
Sale of products
Other operating revenue (Scrap sales)

Period over time

b)

Contract balances
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

1,527.77

1,418.70

Advance from customer (refer note 21)

Trade receivables (refer note 12)

468.73

193.51

Billing in excess of contract revenue (refer note 21)

41.80

89.51

Contract assets (refer note 15)

177.32

95.25

2,215.62

1,796.97

A contract asset is an entity’s right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has transferred
to a customer and hence is not a financial instrument. In Company’s contracts with customers, since the contractual
right to payment arises only upon achievement of milestones specified in the contract, it is believed that the
performance completed until the achievement of a particular milestone should be recorded as a contract asset
under non-financial assets.
During the year, ₹ 95.55 Crores of contract assets pertaining to the long term contracts as of April 01, 2022
(During the period, January 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022 ₹ 111.03 Crores of contract assets pertaining to the long term
contracts as of January 01, 2021) has been reclassified to trade receivables upon billing to customers on completion
of milestones.
During the year, the Company has recognised revenue of ₹ 77.31 Crores arising from opening billing in excess of
contract revenue as of April 01, 2022 (January 1, 2021 is ₹ 345.92 Crores).
c)

No significant adjustments are expected in contract price for revenue recognised in statement of profit
and loss.

d)

Performance Obligation
Information about the Company’s performance obligations are summarised below:
i.)

Long term (Construction type) contracts - The long term contracts are ordinarily presumed to consist of
combined obligations which are not distinct in the context of the contract (i.e., single performance obligation).
This is highly attributed to the long-term construction nature of the projects, whereby deliverables are typically
highly interrelated and combined. The typical scope of turnkey contracts arrangements includes engineering,

200 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

manufacturing, shipment, delivery installation, testing, erection and commissioning and civil works. Although
there are several components to the overall scope of the contract, the turnkey contracts are generally
considered one performance obligation.
ii.)

Products manufacturing and erection, commissioning and installation contracts - These contracts
comprising of two performance obligations of supply of products and erection and commissioning thereof.
When the manufacturing stage is complete, factory acceptance testing procedures are performed to ensure
the equipment meets customer specifications and may involve the customer physically observing the testing
procedures. Revenue from contracts, where the performance obligations are satisfied over time and other
consideration, is recognized as per the percentage of completion method. The Company uses the percentage
of completion method based on the costs expended to the date as a proportion of the total costs to be
expended.
Company as part of its contracts, provides warranties of the equipment for defects arising out of poor
workmanship, inferior material or manufacturing. Such warranty provided is in the nature of assurance
warranty and is not accounted for as a separated performance obligation.

e)

Remaining performance obligations
The remaining performance obligation disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be
recognized as at the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the Company expects to recognize
these amounts in revenue.
The aggregate value of performance obligations that are completely or partially unsatisfied as at March 31, 2023 is
₹ 7,070.91 Crores (March 31, 2022 is ₹ 4,672.29 Crores). The conversion to revenue is highly dependent on meeting
the delivery schedules, contractual terms and conditions with customers, availability of customer sites, changes/
variation in scope/ prices etc. In view of these, it is not practical to define the accurate percentage of conversion to
revenue. However, it will be in a range of 1 to 3 years.

f)

39.

There was no revenue recognised in the current year ended March 31, 2023 from performance obligations satisfied
(or partially satisfied) in previous periods on account of significant changes in transaction price.

Exceptional items
Reimbursement of reorganisation expenses
During the period ended March 31, 2022, Hitachi Energy Ltd (formerly known as Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd), had made
one time payment of ₹ 45.64 Crores to the Company towards reimbursement of reorganization costs incurred/ to be
incurred by the Company consequent to the separation of Power Grids business. Such reimbursement is pursuant to the
global arrangement between ABB Ltd, Switzerland (‘ABB’), and Hitachi Ltd, Japan (‘Hitachi’) being the shareholders of
Hitachi Energy India Limited Accordingly, the reimbursement of ₹ 35.85 Crore received towards the expenditure already
incurred by the Company, after separation, had been disclosed as an exceptional item in the statement of profit and loss
and balance reimbursements received of ₹ 9.79 Crores had been accounted as advances towards liability to be incurred
in the subsequent years.

40.

Related party disclosures
Party where control exists:
Hitachi Limited (Ultimate Holding Company)
Hitachi Energy Limited (Holding Company)
Entities under common control
Name of the Fellow subsidiaries:
ABB (China) Ltd., Beijing, China
ABB (Private) Ltd., Harare, Zimbabwe
ABB (Hong Kong) Ltd., Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region of China
ABB Limited, Zurich, Switzerland
ABB A/S, Skovlunde, Denmark
ABB AB, Västerås, Sweden
ABB AG, Mannheim, Germany
ABB Algerie Produits SpA, Hydra, Algeria
ABB AS, Fornebu, Norway
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland
ABB Australia Pty Limited, Moorebank, NSW, Australia
ABB Automation (Thailand) Co., Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand
ABB Beijing Switchgear Limited, BeiJing, China
ABB Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia, Bulgaria
ABB Chongqing Transformer Company Ltd., Chongqing, China
ABB Electrical Equipment (Xiamen) Co., Ltd., Xiamen, China
ABB Electrical Industries Co. Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

ABB Electrification Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
ABB Elektrik Sanayi A.S., Istanbul, Turkey
ABB E-mobility B.V., Delft, Netherlands
(Formerly known as ABB B.V.)
ABB Engg. Technologies Co. (KSCC), Safat, Kuwait
ABB Global Business Services And Contracting India Private Limited,
Bangalore, India
(Formerly known as ABB Substations Contracting India Private Limited)
ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited, Bangalore, India
ABB Global Marketing FZ LLC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
ABB Hefei Transformer Co. Ltd., Hefei, China
ABB High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen) Company Ltd., Xiamen, China
ABB High Voltage Switchgear Co., Ltd. Beijing, Beijing, China
ABB Inc., Cary, NC, United States
ABB Inc., Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada
ABB India Limited, Bangalore, India
ABB Industries (L.L.C.), Dubai, United Arab Emirates
ABB Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland
ABB Jiangsu Jingke Instrument Transformer Co., Ltd.,
Suqian, Jiangsu, China

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

ABB Limitada, Maputo, Mozambique
ABB Limited, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania, United Republic of
ABB Limited, Dhaka, Bangladesh
ABB Limited, Nairobi, Kenya
ABB Limited/Jordan LLC., Amman, Jordan
ABB Lineage Power Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.; Mexico; Mexico
ABB LLC., Muscat, Oman
ABB LLP., Almaty, Kazakhstan
ABB Ltd., Kampala, Uganda
ABB Ltd., Lusaka, Zambia
ABB Ltd., Seoul, Korea, Republic of
ABB Management Services Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland
ABB Mexico S.A. de C.V., San Luis Potosi SLP, Mexico
ABB N.V., Zaventem, Belgium
ABB Oy, Helsinki, Finland
ABB Panama Sales, S.A., Panama, Panama
ABB Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore
ABB S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina
ABB S.A., Lima, Peru
ABB S.A., Santiago, Chile
ABB S.p.A., Milan, Italy
ABB s.r.o., Prague, Czech Republic
ABB SARL, Kinshasa Gombe, Congo, Democratic Republic
of the Congo
ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland
ABB Shanghai Free Trade Zone Industrial Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China
ABB Shanghai Power System Engineering Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China
ABB Shanghai Transformer Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China
ABB South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa
ABB Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland
ABB Technology SA, Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire
ABB Transmission & Distribution Limited LLC, Abu Dhabi, United
Arab Emirates
ABB Xiamen Surge Arrestor Co., Ltd., Xiamen, China
(Formerly known as ABB Xiamen Surge Arrestor Co. Ltd.)
ABB Xi’an Power Capacitor Company Limited, Xi’an, China
ABB, Inc., Paranaque, Metro Manila, Philippines
ABBNG Limited, Lagos, Nigeria
ABBPowerGrids Philippines, Inc., Paranaque City, Philippines
Asea Brown Boveri S.A., Madrid, Spain
Hitachi Energy (China) Ltd., Beijing, China
Hitachi Energy (Thailand) Limited, Bangkok, Thailand
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids (Thailand) Limited)
Hitachi Energy Argentina S.A.U., Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos
Aires, Argentina
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Argentina S.A.U.)
Hitachi Energy Australia Pty Ltd, Australia
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Australia Pty Ltd)
Hitachi Energy Belgium N.V., Zaventem, Belgium
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Belgium N.V.)
Hitachi Energy Brasil Ltda, Guarulhos, Brazil
(Formerly known as ABB Ltda.)
Hitachi Energy Bulgaria EOOD, Sevlievo, Bulgaria
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Bulgaria EOOD)
Hitachi Energy Canada Inc., Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Canada Inc)
Hitachi Energy Chile S.A., Santiago, Chile
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Chile SA)
Hitachi Energy Colombia Ltda, Bogotá, Colombia
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Colombia Ltda)
Hitachi Energy Czech Republic s.r.o., Trutnov, Czech Republic
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Czech Republic s.r.o)
Hitachi Energy d.o.o., Zagreb, Croatia
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Zagreb d.o.o.)
Hitachi Energy Denmark A/S, Skovlunde, Denmark
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Denmark A/S)
Hitachi Energy Finland Oy, Vaasa, Finland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Finland Oy)
Hitachi Energy France, Les Ulis, France
Hitachi Energy Germany AG, Mannheim, Germany
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Germany AG)
Hitachi Energy Greece Single Member Societe Anonyme,
Metamorphossis Attica , Greece
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Greece Single Member SA)
Hitachi Energy Holdings Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB PG Power Grids Ltd)
Hitachi Energy Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong, Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region of China
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Hong Kong Limited, Hong
Kong Special Administrative Region of China)
Hitachi Energy Hungary Kft, Budapest, Hungary
Hitachi Energy International Marketing FZ-LLC, DUBAI, United
Arab Emirates
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids International Marketing
FZ-LC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates)

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 201

Hitachi Energy Ireland Limited, Dublin, Ireland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Ireland Limited)
Hitachi Energy Italy S.p.A., Milano, Italy
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Italy S.p.A.)
Hitachi Energy Japan Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Japan, Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy Korea Ltd., Seoul, Korea, Republic of
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Korea Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy L.L.C, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids LLC)
Hitachi Energy Limited / Jordan, Amman, Jordan
Hitachi Energy LLC, Muscat, Oman., Oman
(Formerly known as ABB PG Muscat LLC)
Hitachi Energy Ltd, Moscow, Russia
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy India Limited, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
(Formerly known as ABB Contracting Company Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., Selangor, Malaysia
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Malaysia Sdn Bhd)
Hitachi Energy México, S.A. de C.V., San luis Potosi, , Mexico
Hitachi Energy New Zealand Limited, Auckland, New Zealand
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids New Zealand Limited)
Hitachi Energy Norway AS, Oslo, Norway
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Norway AS)
Hitachi Energy Peru S.A., Lima, Peru
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Peru S. A.)
Hitachi Energy Poland Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Poland Sp. z o.o.)
Hitachi Energy Portugal, S.A., Oeiras, Portugal
(Formerly known as ABB Power Systems Portugal)
Hitachi Energy Romania S.R.L., Bucharest, Romania
(Formerly known as ABB SRL)
Hitachi Energy Services Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland
(Formerly known as ABB PG Business Services Sp. z o.o.)
Hitachi Energy Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore , Singapore
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Singapore Pte. Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy Solutions FZCO, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Solutions FZCO)
Hitachi Energy South Africa (Pty) Ltd, Johannesburg, South Africa
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids South Africa (Pty) Ltd)
Hitachi Energy Spain, S.A.U., Madrid, Spain
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Spain, S.A.)
Hitachi Energy Sucursal Panamá, S.A., Panama, Panama
(Formerly known as Sucursal Panama de ABB SA)
Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)
Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd, Baden, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd)
Hitachi Energy Systems L.L.C., Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
(Formerly known as ABB POWER GRIDS SYSTEMS LLC)
Hitachi Energy Taiwan Co., Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan (Chinese Taipei)
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Co., Ltd.)
Hitachi Energy Technologies L L C, Doha, Qatar
Hitachi Energy Technologies W.L.L., Bahrain, Bahrain
Hitachi Energy Technology S.A.E, Cairo, Egypt
(Formerly known as ABB for Power Grids S.A.E)
Hitachi Energy Technology Services Private Limited, Bangalore, India
(Formerly known as ABB Power Technology Services Private Limited)
Hitachi Energy The Netherlands B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids The Netherlands B.V.)
Hitachi Energy Trading S.A.E, Cairo, Egypt.
(Formerly known as ABB Holding for Power Grids S.A.E)
Hitachi Energy Transformers S.A.E, Fifth Settlement, New Cairo, Egypt
(Formerly known as ABB Transformers S.A.E.)
Hitachi Energy Turkey Elektrik Sanayi Anonim Şirketi, İstanbul, Turkey
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Turkey Elektrik Sanayi Anonim
Şirketi )
Hitachi Energy UK Limited, Stone, United Kingdom
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids UK Limited)
Hitachi Energy USA Inc., Raleigh, NC, United States
(Formerly known as ABB Enterprise Software Inc.)
Hitachi Energy Vietnam Company Limited, Hanoi, Vietnam
(Formerly known as ABB Ltd.)
Hitachi Hi-Rel Power Electronics Private Limited
Hitachi Systems India Private Limited, India
(Formerly known as Hitachi Systems Micro Clinic Private Limited)
Hitachi T&D Systems Asia Pte. Ltd, Singapore
Johnson Controls-Hitachi Air Conditioning India Limited
Nanjing SAC Automation Co. Ltd., Nanjing, Jiangsu, China
(Formerly known as Nanjing SAC Power Grid Automation Co. Ltd.)
PT ABB Sakti Industri, Jakarta, Indonesia
PT. Hitachi Sakti Energy Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia
(Formerly known as PT. ABB Power Grids Indonesia)
Pucaro Elektro-Isolierstoffe GmbH, Roigheim, Germany

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

202 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

Name of the Fellow associates:
Linxon India Private Limited

Linxon India Engineering Private Limited

Key managerial personnel :
(a)

Managing Director & CEO

Nuguri Venu

(b)

Non-Executive Director

Achim Michael Braun (appointed w.e.f. February 25, 2021)
Ismo Antero Haka (appointed w.e.f. February 25, 2021)
Frank Duggan (resigned w.e.f. February 25, 2021)
Sanjeev Sharma (resigned w.e.f. February 25, 2021)

(c)

Non-Executive cum Independent Directors

Akila Krishnakumar
Nishi Vasudeva
Mukesh Hari Butani

(d)

Chief Financial Officer

Ajay Singh

(e)

Company Secretary

Poovanna C Ammatanda

Transactions with related parties
Transaction value in excess of 10% with a fellow subsidiary has been individually disclosed below. All other cases have
been grouped and disclosed as ‘other fellow subsidiaries’.
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

i)

For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

5.61

19.83

20.53

19.33

- Hitachi Energy USA Inc., Raleigh, NC, United States
(Formerly known as ABB Enterprise Software Inc.)

243.00

124.32

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

128.28

106.99

- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

77.83

193.15

- Other fellow subsidiaries

557.43

477.79

Revenue from operations
Ultimate Holding Company
- Hitachi Limited

Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Limited (w.e.f. February 5, 2021)

Fellow Subsidiaries

1

Fellow Associates
- Linxon India Private Limited

ii)

24.13

41.19

1,056.81

982.60

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

0.11

0.23

- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India1

0.07

-

- ABB S.p.A., Milan, Italy

0.05

- ABB Limited, Dhaka, Bangladesh

0.04

-

-

30.58

Other income
Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland
(w.e.f February 5, 2021)
- Other fellow subsidiaries

0.06

1.24

0.33

32.05

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 203

All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

iii)

For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

- Hitachi Energy Vietnam Company Limited, Hanoi, Vietnam
(Formerly known as ABB Ltd.)

86.28

88.26

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

87.58

170.93

- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India1

59.54

150.48

- Other fellow subsidiaries

131.16

147.63

364.56

557.30

146.22

197.56

1.13

2.17

147.35

199.73

47.73

72.76

- Hitachi Energy Technology Services Private Limited, Bangalore, India
(Formerly known as ABB Power Technology Services Private Limited)

43.14

51.74

- Hitachi Energy Holdings Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB PG Power Grids Ltd)

39.26

62.59

- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

16.03

42.98

- ABB Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland

16.31

26.62

- Other fellow subsidiaries

36.41

39.90

198.88

296.59

0.02

-

0.97

38.90

- Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd, Baden, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd)

14.93

15.09

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

6.20

5.42

- Other fellow subsidiaries

2.85

4.22

2.21

-

27.18

63.63

Purchases of raw materials, components , project items, stock-in-trade and
sub-contracting expenses
Fellow Subsidiaries

iv)

Expenditure on royalty and technology fees
Fellow Subsidiaries
- Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd, Baden, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd)
- Other fellow subsidiaries

v)

Expenditure on information technology, engineering, management, legal and
professional fees and other services
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Limited (w.e.f. February 5, 2021)

Fellow Subsidiaries

vi)

Expenses recovered from group companies
Ultimate Holding Company
- Hitachi Limited

Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Limited (w.e.f. February 5, 2021) (refer note 39)

Fellow Subsidiaries

Fellow Associates
- Linxon India Private Limited

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

204 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

vii)

For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

Other capital expenditure
Fellow Subsidiaries

viii)

- ABB High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen) Company Ltd., Xiamen, China

5.67

1.29

- Hitachi Energy Germany AG, Mannheim, Germany
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Germany AG)

1.90

0.58

- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

0.29

37.59

- Other fellow subsidiaries

1.25

1.53

9.11

40.99

28.50

26.41

9.54

6.36

Reimbursement of capital expenditure
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Limited (w.e.f. February 5, 2021) (refer note 3(iv))

ix)

Dividend paid
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Limited (w.e.f. February 5, 2021)

x)

Remuneration to key managerial personnel
The remuneration of key management personnel and a relative of key management personnel of the Company are set out below in
aggregate for each of the categories specified in Ind AS 24 Related party disclosures
Particulars
Short term employee benefits

7.61

Post employment benefits*

0.40

10.36
0.44

Directors’ Sitting fees

0.29

0.14

Commission to Directors

1.16

1.15

Total

9.46

12.09

* Does not include gratuity and compensated absences as these are provided in the books of accounts on the basis of actuarial valuation
for the Company as a whole and hence individual amount cannot be determined.

xi)

Company has issued back-to-back guarantee to Linxon India Private Limited during the year ended March 31, 2022
to ₹ 3.80 Crores which is outstanding as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 respectively.

Amount due to / from related parties
Balances in excess of 10% with a fellow subsidiary has been individually disclosed below. All other cases have been
grouped and disclosed as ‘other fellow subsidiaries’.
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

i)

As at
March 31, 2023

As at
March 31, 2022

0.01

-

8.03

4.29

- ABB India Limited, Bangalore, India1

66.20

142.80

-Hitachi Energy USA Inc., Raleigh, NC, United States
(Formerly known as ABB Enterprise Software Inc.)

55.50

24.95

- Other fellow subsidiaries

262.14

186.47

Trade receivables
Ultimate Holding Company
- Hitachi Limited
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Limited
Fellow Subsidiaries

Fellow Associates
- Linxon India Private Limited

13.68

16.42

405.56

374.93

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 205

All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise

ii)

As at
March 31, 2023

As at
March 31, 2022

-

26.41

Other financial assets
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Limited (refer note 3(iv))

Fellow Subsidiaries

iii)

- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

4.79

6.10

- Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd, Baden,Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd)

6.54

-

- Other fellow subsidiaries

0.73

0.19

12.06

32.70

-

0.66

- ABB India Limited, Bangalore, India1

5.95

1.00

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

0.57

6.34

-

1.55

Other current assets
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Limited

Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB Power Grids International Marketing FZ-LC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
- Other fellow subsidiaries

iv)

1.25

3.91

7.77

13.46

0.12

-

- ABB India Limited, Bangalore, India1

95.46

142.40

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

51.36

80.52

- Hitachi Energy Switzerland Ltd, Baden, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd)

47.33

58.82

Hitachi Energy Holdings Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland
(Formerly known as ABB PG Power Grids Ltd)

30.38

42.64

- Other fellow subsidiaries

97.58

135.25

1.08

3.22

323.31

462.85

- ABB India Limited, Bangalore, India

33.49

32.79

- Other fellow subsidiaries

0.49

-

33.98

32.79

9.79

9.79

24.93

1.99

3.56

3.56

Trade payables
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Limited
Fellow Subsidiaries

Fellow Associates
- Linxon India Private Limited

v)

Other financial liabilities
Fellow Subsidiaries

vi)

Other current liabilities
Holding Company
- Hitachi Energy Limited (refer note 39)

Fellow Subsidiaries
-Hitachi Energy South Africa (Pty) Ltd, Johannesburg, South Africa
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids South Africa (Pty) Ltd)
- Hitachi Energy Brasil Ltda, Guarulhos, Brazil

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

206 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
As at
March 31, 2023

As at
March 31, 2022

- Hitachi Energy Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Sweden AB)

-

7.05

- Hitachi Energy Colombia Ltda, Bogotá, Colombia
(Formerly known as ABB Power Grids Colombia Ltda)

-

6.14

9.21

4.55

0.02

-

47.51

33.08

(Formerly known as ABB Ltda.)

- Other fellow subsidiaries
Fellow Associates
- Linxon India Private Limited

1

Pursuant to demerger of Power Grid business from ABB India Limited (‘ABB’), as detailed in note 16(g), the Company has accounted

sales and purchases towards the contracts yet to be novated by the Company with customers and vendors. The aforesaid sales and
purchases has been included in the revenue from operations and cost of sales of the Company. The receivables and payables on account
of the same has been included in trade receivables and payables respectively.
Also refer sl. no. xi of transactions with related parties.
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. Outstanding
balances at the year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.

41.

Corporate social responsibility expenses
As per the Section 135 of the Companies Act 2013 (‘Act’), the Board shall ensure that the Company spends, in every financial year, at
least two per cent of the average of the net profits of the three immediately preceding financial years, in pursuance of its Corporate Social
Responsibility (‘CSR’) Policy. Hence, the Company falls within the ambit of Section 135 of the Act and is required to contribute the amount
stipulated under the aforesaid provisions of the Act.
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
March 31, 2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

a)

Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year/period

4.25

3.58

b)

Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year/period

4.25

3.58

c)

Amount spent during the year ended on March 31, 2023:
In cash

Yet to be paid in cash

Total

-

-

-

1.63

2.62

4.25

In cash

Yet to be paid in cash

Total

-

-

-

2.15

1.43

3.58

March 31, 2023

March 31, 2022

d)

e)

i)

Construction/acquisition of any assets

ii)

On purposes other than (i) above

Amount spent during the period ended on March 31, 2022:
i)

Construction/acquisition of any assets

ii)

On purposes other than (i) above

Details related to spent/ unspent obligations:
i)

Contribution to Public Trust

ii)

Contribution to Charitable Trust

iii)

Amount yet to be paid in cash in relation to:
-Ongoing project
-Other than ongoing project

f)

-

-

1.63

2.15

2.62

1.43

-

-

4.25

3.58

Details of ongoing project

With Company

Opening balance
In separate CSR
unspent account

Amount required
to be spent
during the year

From Company’s
bank account

From separate CSR
unspent account

With Company

In separate CSR
unspent account

1.43

0.11

4.25

2.08

1.09

2.17

0.45

Amount spent during the year

Closing balance

A N N UA L R E P O R T 		
2022–23

42.

H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D | 207

Ratios
All amount in Indian Rupees in Crores, except as stated otherwise
Ratio

Numerator

Denominator

For the year
ended March 31,
2023

For the 15 months
period ended
March 31, 2022

%
change

Current ratio

Current Assets

Current Liabilities

1.16

1.15

0.80%

Debt- Equity
Ratio1

Total Debt

Shareholder’s Equity

0.23

0.11

104.99%

Debt Service
Coverage ratio2

Earnings for debt service = Net profit
after taxes + Non-cash operating
expenses + Finance costs

Debt service = Interest
& Lease Payments +
Principal Repayments

4.37

7.21

-39.37%

Return on Equity
ratio2

Net Profits after taxes

Average Shareholder’s
Equity

0.08

0.20

-59.40%

Inventory Turnover
ratio2

Cost of goods sold

Average Inventory

3.75

5.09

-26.22%

Trade Receivable
Turnover Ratio2

Net credit sales = Gross credit sales sales return

Average Trade Receivable

3.04

3.24

-6.15%

Trade Payable
Turnover Ratio2

Net credit purchases = Gross credit
purchases - purchase return

Average Trade Payables

2.51

2.69

-6.65%

Net Capital
Turnover Ratio2

Net sales = Total sales - sales return

Working capital = Current
assets – Current liabilities

10.74

14.32

-24.99%

Net Profit ratio2

Net Profit

Net sales = Total sales sales return

0.02

0.04

-50.00%

Return on Capital
Employed2

Earnings before interest and taxes

Capital Employed =
Tangible Net Worth +
Total Debt + Deferred Tax
Liability

0.12

0.26

-54.86%

Return on
Investment

Interest (Finance Income)

Investment

N.A

N.A

N.A

1

Increase on account of increase in short term loan from bank as at March 31, 2023.

2

Ratios for the year ended March 31, 2023 are not comparable to ratios disclosed for the comparative period. Refer note 2.1(D)

43.

The Company is in the process of conducting a transfer pricing study as required by the transfer pricing regulations
under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (‘regulations’) to determine whether the transactions entered during the year ended
March 31, 2023, with the associated enterprises were undertaken at “arm’s length price”. The management confirms
that all the transactions with associate enterprises are undertaken at negotiated prices on usual commercial terms and is
confident that the aforesaid regulations will not have any impact on the financial statements, particularly on the amount of
tax expense and that of provision for taxation.

44.

The spread of COVID-19 has severely impacted businesses around the globe. In many countries, including India, there has
been severe disruption to regular business operations due to lockdowns, disruptions in transportation, supply chain, travel
bans, quarantines, social distancing and other emergency measures. The Company has evaluated its liquidity position and
of recoverability and carrying values of its assets/ liabilities and has concluded that no material adjustments are required
at this stage in these financial statements.

45.

Additional regulatory information
- No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources
or kind of funds by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend
or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
- There are no funds received by the Company from any person or entity, including foreign entities (“Funding Party”) with
the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend
or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
- No transactions to report against Benami Property held under Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988
and rules made thereunder.

A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 2 2 – 2 3

208 | H I TAC H I E N E R GY I N D I A L I M I T E D

- The Company does not have any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961
(such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
- The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government
authority.

46.

Subsequent events
The Board of directors have recommended dividend of ₹ 3.40 per equity share, which translates to a total dividend of
₹ 14.41 Crores, for the year ended March 31, 2023. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the
approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.

47.		 Certain amounts (currency value or percentages) shown in the various tables and paragraphs included in the financial
statements have been rounded off or truncated as deemed appropriate by the management of the Company.

As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 101049W/E300004

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Hitachi Energy India Limited
(Formerly known as ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman & Director
DIN: 08596097

Nuguri Venu
Managing Director & CEO
DIN: 07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Place: Bengaluru
Date: May 24, 2023

Bengaluru
May 24, 2023

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

We reserve all rights in this document and
in the subject matter and illustrations
contained therein. Any reproduction,
disclosure to third parties or utilization
of its contents – in whole or in parts – is
forbidden without prior written consent of
Hitachi Energy India Limited

Concept, content and design by Report Yak (contact@reportyak.com)

Additional information
We reserve the right to make technical
changes or modify the contents of this
document without prior notice. With
regard to purchase orders, the agreed
particulars shall prevail. Hitachi Energy
India Limited does not accept any
responsibility whatsoever for potential
errors or possible lack of information in
this document.

