April 30, 2021
BSE Limited
P.J. Towers
Dalal Street
Mumbai 400 001
(Atten: DCS Listing)

National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor
Plot No. C/1, G Block
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E)
Mumbai 400 051
(Atten: Manager Listing Department)

Dear Sirs
Subject: Submission of Annual Report of the Company for the Financial year ended December 31, 2020
pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations).
Ref

: BSE Scrip: 543187 (POWERINDIA)

NSE Symbol: POWERINDIA

In terms of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, enclosed please find copy of the Annual Report for the
financial year ended December 31, 2020 being circulated to Members of the Company in respect of the 2nd
Annual General Meeting, scheduled to be held on Thursday, May 27, 2021 at 11.00 A.M. (IST) through
Video Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”).
You are requested to take the same on record.
Thanking you.
Yours faithfully,
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

AMMATANDA
CHINNAPPA
POOVANNA

Digitally signed by
AMMATANDA CHINNAPPA
POOVANNA
Date: 2021.04.30 15:29:33
+05'30'

Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Encl: As above

ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Registered Office & Corporate Office
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru-560 092
Phone: +91 80 22041800

CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/

HITACHI ABB POWER GRIDS

HITACHI ABB POWER GRIDS

Towards a carbon-neutral energy system

ABB Power Products and
Systems India Limited
Annual Report 2020

2

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Hitachi ABB Power Grids
At a glance
Hitachi ABB Power Grids in India* balances social,
environmental and economic values. It is committed to
powering good for a sustainable energy future, with
pioneering and digital technologies, as the partner of
choice for enabling a stronger, smarter and greener grid.
In India, the Company has 16 manufacturing units in
five key locations, 17 sales offices and over 2,000
employees. It is listed on the stock exchanges as
ABB Power Products and Systems India Ltd.*
We are a green-conscious company, pioneering
technology innovations that increase access to reliable,
flexible, sustainable and affordable energy. We are
helping accelerate the energy transition. Our experts are
enabling our customers to plan, build, operate and
maintain the electricity backbone and future power
systems needed by citizens, countries, regions and the
world, to accelerate progress towards a carbon-neutral
energy future.

*Hitachi ABB Power Grids operates in India as ABB Power Products and
Systems India Limited. It is listed on the National Stock Exchange of India
Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE) as POWERINDIA, Scrip code: 543187.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Annual Report 2020
Contents

4

Financials

5

Our world in 2050

6

Investing in the future

8

Creating the building blocks for the energy transition

9

2020 highlights

10

Corporate Social Responsibility

11

Our three pronged COVID-19 crisis strategy

12

The COVID-19 pandemic

14

Country Management Committee

15

Company information

17

Business Responsibility Report 2020

33

Notice to the Members

47

Boards’ Report

110

Independent Auditors’ Report

119

Balance Sheet

3

4

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Financials
Our performance in January-December 2020
Robust performance in an unprecedented year impacted by a
turbulent market and the COVID-19 pandemic. Continued customer
engagement and conversion of opportunities and strategic business
continuity measures ensured resilience.
Highlights

Key ratios

Particulars

(Amount in ` crores)

Effective tax rate

26.77%

Total orders received

3217.7

Earnings per share (`)

23.55

Revenue

3438.9

Debtors turnover

2.04

Profit Before Tax (PBT) before exceptional items

171.8

Inventory turnover

6.96

Profit After Tax (PAT)

99.8

Current ratio

1.09

Order split by sector

Order split by offerings

2020

2020

2019

2019
0%

Utilities

20%

40%

Industries

60%

80%

100%

Transport & Infra

0%

20%

Products

40%

60%

Projects

80%

Services

100%

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Our world in 2050
Major trends shaping
the world
We believe that our future world must be
a more sustainable one. To ensure power
for all and accommodate changing energy
demand and supply patterns, we are
shaping a stronger, smarter and greener
grid, driving an enduring Energy Transition.

Limit global warming

1.50C

hit net zero by 2050

1 bn

without reliable electricity

80%

more energy
consumed

50%

power sourced from
wind and solar

68%

people living in cities
Rapid growth of

EVs

250MN stock by 2030

500 bn

IOT connected devices

9.9 bn

people on our planet
Predicting everything

AI, MR

digital twins...
Global economic shift

E7 countries

Economies double G7

Social media boom

TRUST

is more important

5

6

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Investing in the future
Laying the foundation for a clean energy future
We dedicated ourselves to shaping industry - academia partnership
through pilots and MoUs, striving for a better tomorrow.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Smart Grid Education: Joined forces with the National Institute of Technology, Warangal (NITW), Telangana, to drive smart electric
grid technology education, skills development and research activities.
E-mobility: Teamed up with Ashok Leyland and the Indian
Institute of Technology-Madras for an e-mobility pilot to support
sustainable in-campus commuting.

7

8

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Creating the building blocks for the
energy transition
Building back better through innovation with
new product and solution launches in 2020

Grid-eMotion™ Fleet:
Launched a game-changing EV charging system for largescale e-mobility. A full ‘grid-to-plug’ solution for large-scale
public transport and commercial fleets, enabling operators to
charge more with less.

TXpert™ Ecosystem:
Introduced the open, scalable and manufacturer-agnostic
ecosystem for transformer digitalization. The solution can
enable millions of dollars in savings through greater flexibility,
efficiency and resilience in electricity networks.

Digital Enterprise became Lumada:
Integrated Hitachi ABB Power Grids’ Digital Enterprise flagship solutions of asset and enterprise performance management
into Hitachi’s Lumada portfolio.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

2020 highlights
Sustaining momentum, setting precedents

Utility:
Energized the first stage of the 6,000 megawatt +/- 800
kilovolt ultra-high voltage direct current transmission link
connecting Raigarh in central India to Pugalur in the southern
state of Tamil Nadu. Booked a breakthrough transformer
order for Tamil Nadu’s Virudhunagar substation and
renewable energy monitoring automation order from
the national power transmission company. Successfully
commissioned our first digitalization project in Maharashtra
and booked multiple lifecycle service orders in grid
automation from state utilities.
Transportation:
Won a major order from a public electric locomotive
manufacturer for Indian Railways to advance the Government
of India’s mission of 100 percent rail electrification and a low
carbon footprint. Also received a major export order for
our traction transformer for Perth Metro in Australia, in
addition to local rail and metro orders for transformers and
grid automation solutions.

Infrastructure:
Deployed state-of-the-art transformers for the Atal Tunnel –
the world’s longest highway tunnel above the altitude of
10,000 feet, to ensure uninterrupted, round-the-clock power,
critical from a safety and defense standpoint, as well as for
ensuring the transport of and passage to essential services
such as healthcare and food supplies.
Industry:
Booked a project from HPCL Rajasthan Refinery Limited
to develop power infrastructure for its new refinery and
petrochemical project in the Barmer district of Rajasthan. Also,
chosen by Indian Oil Corporation Ltd to strengthen its missioncritical power infrastructure at its Barauni refinery in Bihar.
Also, received contracts from steel and Oil & Gas companies
for our power quality solutions and booked our largest-ever
High Voltage service order – for the extension and
refurbishment of a GIS substation - for a leading independent
power producer in India. Also awarded an export order for
Nigeria’s Dangote refinery for our power quality solutions.

9

10

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Corporate Social Responsibility
Creating a better tomorrow

Support during COVID-19: Contributed actively towards the
PM Cares Fund as well as providing face shields to local
police and supplies for the less-privileged.
Diversity and inclusion: Joined hands with Sikshana
Foundation’s Women-in-Engineering program to facilitate
education for girls and women in manufacturing and
engineering – traditionally male-dominated fields – and
provide training, internship and scholarship opportunities to
develop their career paths.
Smart city innovation: Initiated an integrated monitoring
and analytics platform in IIT Roorkee for sustainable smart
city innovation and incubation in line with Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs).

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Our three pronged COVID-19 crisis
strategy

Protecting our people
Ensuring the safety and well-being of our employees
• Voluntary COVID-19 testing for employees and contract
workforce
• On-boarding Connect and Heal to provide primary and
preventive tele-medicine services to employees
• Providing personal protective equipment kits to
workforce and adhering to all social distancing and
sanitary requirements
• Acknowledging our front-line workers through awards
and certificates of recognition

Preserving business continuity
Safeguarding our vision to shape the energy future
• Amplified customer engagement through technology
and digital solutions
• Remotely commissioned projects

Preparing for the new norm
Making digitalization our ally
• Switched to Remote Factory Acceptance Tests
• Conducted numerous virtual technical webinars
• Launched our flagship customer event – Energy and
Digital World
• Continued engagement with industry leaders through
virtual industry events

11

12

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

The COVID-19 pandemic
Impact and action plan

COVID-19 came as an unprecedented global crisis. It
disrupted life as we knew it, changing the way we live, work
and interact with each other. In India, the first case was
reported on January 30, while the disease was rapidly
spreading across the globe. To curtail the spread of the
infection within its borders, India had imposed a strict
nationwide lockdown and promulgated health and safety
regulations, shutting factories, banning all kinds of travel,
mandating social distancing and quarantines.
In this period of uncertainty, our prime focus was to collaborate
and manage the crisis for our employees, customers, partners
and the community, and build our spirit and strength.
We adopted a three-pronged approach:
Protecting our people;
Preserving business continuity;
and
Preparing for this new norm
Protecting our people
Our priority was to keep our employees, customers and
partners safe.

In accordance with the Ministry of Home Affairs’ national
lockdown requirements from March 25, 2020, operations
across plants, project sites and offices were closed. Besides
energizing the network of our location-specific crisis teams,
an exclusive helpline for employees was launched to discuss
and support our employees’ and their families’ emotional
welfare. Medical assistance was arranged at employees’
fingertips with Connect and Heal – a primary and preventive
care provider, even as they worked from home.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Voluntary COVID-19 testing, medical reviews and checks
were organized at various locations. As operations were
permitted to resume by the various governing authorities,
we capped the number of employees working at a particular
time at all plants and offices; made arrangements for sanitized
transportation to factories and demarcated work and common
areas to ensure strict adherence to social distancing.
At project sites, processes were put in place to ensure secure
and safe lodging facilities for migrant workers.

ensuring social distancing, implementing a six-day
workweek to compensate for productivity loss; and focusing
on collections and liquidity. We were able to preserve cash
by proactively identifying and postponing non-essential
spends and optimizing external resources and personnel
expenses.

Employees were provided protective gear like masks, face
shields, gloves and sanitizers; mandated to take all safety
precautions and maintain absolute transparency in health
declarations. All employees were encouraged to download
the Aarogya Setu app launched by the Government of India.
This is followed until date.

Preparing for this new norm
Backed by our resilience and zest for innovation, we quickly
adapted to the new norm. Besides switching to remote factory
acceptance tests where possible, we conducted numerous
virtual technical webinars, attended by over thousands
of participants from utilities, industries, transport and
infrastructure segments across countries, and launched
our flagship customer event Energy and Digital World.
We continued engagement with industry leaders through
virtual industry events, and specific one-on-one CEO
connects that helped us keep a finger on the pulse across
various verticals.

In addition to all this, most employees voluntarily donated
one-day’s salary to the PM CARES Fund. This donation was
matched by the Company, totalling ` 1.24 crore, as a mark of
solidarity in this time of crisis.
Preserving business continuity
We maintained business continuity by amplifying customer
engagement through technology and leveraging digital
solutions for product service and training, and even
commissioning of certain projects. We implemented cost
control measures to conserve cash and recovered lost
production days by strategically planning shifts and rotations
to enable maximum capacity utilization of shop floors while

All through, our ambition was to prepare for the new norm in
the best possible manner and build back better.

We conducted about 45 workshops for over 600 customers,
clocking close to 2,000 man-days of training. Our technology
and knowledge institute, PowerTec, alone carried over
30 webinars attended by over 6,000 participants from
more than 200 companies across 19 countries and
also devoted efforts toward developing future talent for our
high-growth segments.

13

14

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Country Management Committee

N Venu
Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel and
Company Secretary

Karthik Krishnamurthi
Head of Sales and Marketing

Raja Radhakrishnan
Country HR Director

Akilur Rahman
Chief Technology Officer

Manashwi Banerjee
Head of Communications

Ahmad Khan
Senior Vice President
Grid Automation

Ramkumar D
Senior Vice President
GPQS

Rupinder Singh
Senior Vice President
High Voltage Products

Saji S
Senior Vice President
HVDC

Sanjay Saxena
Senior Vice President
Transformers

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

15

Company information
Board of Directors
Achim Michael Braun, Chairman
Venu Nuguri, Managing Director and CEO
Ismo Antero Haka, Director
Akila Krishnakumar, Independent Director
Mukesh Hari Butani, Independent Director
Nishi Vasudeva, Independent Director

Auditors
M/s. S.R. Batliboi &
Associates LLP,
Chartered Accountants
12th Floor, UB City, Canberra Block,
No 24, Vittal Mallya Road,
Bengaluru - 560 001.

Registrar and Share Transfer Agents
KFin Technologies Private Limited
Selenium, Tower B,
Plot 31-32, Gachibowli,
Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally Mandal,
Hyderabad - 500 032.

Audit Committee
Mukesh Hari Butani, Chairperson
Akila Krishnakumar, Member
Nishi Vasudeva, Member
Venu Nuguri, Member

Chief Financial Officer
Ajay Singh

Bankers
Axis Bank Limited
Bank of America, N.A.
Deutsche Bank AG
HDFC Bank Limited
ICICI Bank Limited
JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Standard Chartered Bank
State Bank of India
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited

Stakeholders
Relationship Committee
Nishi Vasudeva, Chairperson
Mukesh Hari Butani, Member
Venu Nuguri, Member
Ismo Antero Haka, Member
Nomination and Remuneration
Committee
Akila Krishnakumar, Chairperson
Nishi Vasudeva, Member
Achim Michael Braun, Member
Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee
Akila Krishnakumar, Chairperson
Achim Michael Braun, Member
Venu Nuguri, Member
Risk Management Committee
Mukesh Hari Butani, Chairman
Nishi Vasudeva, Member
Ismo Antero Haka, Member
Venu Nuguri, Member
Ajay Singh, Member

Cost Auditor
M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates,
Cost Accountant
801-2, Goyal Trade Center,
Above Sona Cinema, Shantivan,
Near National Park, Borivali (East),
Mumbai - 400 066.
Secretarial Auditors
M/s. BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries
4272, Sapthagiri, 2nd Floor,
Vivekananda Park Road,
Near Seetha Circle,
Girinagar, Bengaluru - 560 085.
General Counsel, Company Secretary
and Compliance Officer
Poovanna Ammatanda
Registered Office
8th Floor, Brigade Opus,
70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560 092.

Corporate Identity Number
L31904KA2019PLC121597

16

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Supporting India’s mission to bring
clean and reliable power for all
through UHVDC transmission link

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Business Responsibility Report 2020
Statement on demerger
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited (“Company”
“We”) was incorporated on February 19, 2019.
A scheme of arrangement (“Scheme”) was entered
into between (i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”/“Transferor”)
and (ii) your Company (“Company”/“Transferee”) and
their respective shareholders and creditors, pursuant to
the provisions of Section 230 to 232 and other
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, which
provided for inter alia the Demerger of the Power Grids
Business of INABB (“Demerged Undertaking”) and the
consequent issuance of Equity Shares by the Company
to the shareholders of INABB as per the Share Entitlement
Ratio. The Scheme was approved by Company’s Board of
Directors pursuant to its resolution dated March 5, 2019 and
the Board of Directors of INABB pursuant to its resolution
dated March 5, 2019. Pursuant to an order dated June 27,
2019, passed by the NCLT, meetings of the equity
shareholders and the creditors of INABB were convened.
The equity shareholders and the creditors of INABB approved
the Scheme at court convened meetings, each held on
August 9, 2019. The NCLT approved the Scheme on
November 27, 2019. The Appointed Date of the Scheme was
April 1, 2019 and the Effective Date was December 1, 2019.
The Scheme provided for the transfer by way of a demerger
of the Demerged Undertaking and the consequent issue of
Equity Shares by the Company to the shareholders of INABB
in accordance with the Share Entitlement Ratio, and various
other matters consequential or integrally connected there
with, including the re-organisation of the share capital of the
Transferee, pursuant to Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies
Act, 2013, the SEBI Circulars and in compliance with the
Income Tax Act, 1961.

Sustainability overview
Our purpose is powering good for a sustainable energy
future, with pioneering and digital technologies, as the partner
of choice for enabling a stronger, smarter and greener grid.
We help to increase access to affordable, reliable, sustainable,
and modern energy for all. Aligned with the United Nations’
Sustainable Development Goal 7. The Company is a leading
contributor to a sustainable world through its unique business
offerings of pioneering technologies and sustainable business
practices. The Company is expecting in aiding and steering
the path for the country’s vision of sustainable growth and
its agenda to focus on smart cities, sustainable mobility
solutions, bringing in automation and energy efficiency in
core manufacturing and utility sectors apart from focusing on

its in-house sustainability in terms of sustainable processes
and practices at its operations and manufacturing locations.
The Company is supporting Government of India to realize
its ambitious vision of ‘Make-in-India’ through advanced
manufacturing technologies that incorporate the latest
developments in Renewable Energy integration, Digitalization,
Grid Automation and electric vehicle charging infrastructure.
The Company is using its state-of-the-art manufacturing and
applications of future technologies.
The Company is expecting to create value by manufacturing
and supplying energy-efficient power grid business,
making their operations more efficient and lowering overall
environmental impact. Robust risk management processes
are being undertaken, covering health, safety, social,
environmental and security impacts, to strengthen business
performance and resilience.
Sustainability considerations are embedded into the
Company’s daily business and it helps to create value to its
varied stakeholders and manage its risks. The Health
Safety Environment and Sustainability Affairs (HSE/SA)
function sets strategic direction and delivers effective,
efficient services that embed health, safety, environment,
security, and corporate responsibility in sustainable business
practices of the Company.
The Company has a focused approach to address
sustainability and has set itself with ambitious targets
for key sustainability indicators such as health safety,
environment-energy, climate change, waste, water, right
material use, resource efficiency, integrity, sustainable
sourcing, security and community engagement. All these
initiatives have a direct or indirect impact on the Company’s
performance and its success. The Company has in place
a comprehensive policy on Health, Safety, Environment,
Security and Sustainability. The Company also has an HSE
policy in line with the Hitachi ABB Power Grids Group
(“Group”) objective.
To realize global leadership in HSE/Sustainability (SA)
performance, the Group has created a robust and
comprehensive HSE/SA management system (titled the
ABB way) based on internationally recognized sustainability
standards, principles and commitments including ISO 45001
and ISO 14001. This system sets clear expectations and the
required minimum standards, which are being implemented
and embedded into our operations across the world including
activities of the Company.
The Company has established the PG HSE/SA Management
System and is certified for ISO 14001 and ISO 45001.

17

18

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Sustainability objectives and targets
The business has set sustainability targets that are continuously
monitored, and along with actions are taken. The Group targets
and programs for 2021 and beyond includes the following
nine sustainability objectives against which performance is
monitored and reported:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Products and services for a better world
Energy efficiency and climate change
Safe and secure operations
Integrity
Human rights
People and society
Responsible sourcing
Resource efficiency
Right materials

Hitachi ABB Power Grids (“Group”) prepares the Sustainability
Report annually for public disclosure based on the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines.

Stakeholder engagement
Sustainability performance forms an important basis for the
Company’s dialogue with its stakeholders. In recent years
Group has been carrying out surveys with stakeholders
that impact the Company’s sustainability strategy and
priorities. Consultations with both external and internal
stakeholders were instrumental in developing the Group
sustainability objectives for 2014-2020. A comprehensive
dialogue is in process to seek inputs and feedback from key
stakeholders that will enable Hitachi ABB Power Grids to
revisit its materiality matrix and in developing the next level
2030 objectives. The 2030 Objectives are being established
by the Group and the legal entity will incorporate the same
along with the local objectives.
The following are the key identified stakeholders of the
Company:
Business

Government

Civil society

Customers

Government and regulators

International organizations

Suppliers

Legislators and the law

Local communities

Investors

Trade bodies

Academia and
scientific community

Employees

Media

Competitors

NGOs and civil society
organizations, trade unions

During the financial year ended December 31, 2020, we
dynamically engaged with its varied stakeholders to create an
inclusive business environment seeking their inputs constantly.
The Company had dialogues with various Government entities
central and state with regards to policy and presentation on the
Company’s innovative sustainable solutions such as electric
vehicle charging and “Make-in-India”, smart cities, sustainable
mobility solutions, energy efficiency, efficiency upgradation in
the railways sector, renewable energy, growth developments
& technology keeping the climate change, job skilling, etc.
The Company established a world-class digital experience

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

center demonstrating the next level of enterprise performance
for enhanced grid stability, improved asset performance
and efficient operational management, and began work on its
High-Voltage Products Innovation Center as part of our
investment in strategic research and the Company also laid the
foundation for projects in the e-mobility space in the country
with the Grid-eMotion™ Flash charging solution. The Company
also partnered with Ashok Leyland in 2020 to facilitate a
zero-emissions mass public transportation bus system.
Supplier and contractor HSE/SA meets are carried out
regularly to bring contractors and vendors in line with HSE/SA
requirements of management systems. The Company also
carried out its Supplier Sustainable Development Program
(SSDP) across chosen vendors.
The supplier and contractor HSE/SA meets conducted to
align the goals with them and the plans to achieve them
over a period of time. The contractor TRIFR (Total Recordable
Incident Frequency Rate) achieved at 20 percent improvement
over the past year.
A total of 436 investor complaints were received during the
financial year Jan – Dec 2020. For employee participation and
engagement, there are several ongoing initiatives. Also, there
were several management communications with emphasis
on health, wellness & safety in daily work.
The Company during the period also organised several
customer engagements events to bring the Company’s
technologies closer to the customers.
The Company organized multiple customers connect programs
on HSE/SA, to hear to the voice of the customer to further
improve the performance and to include the inputs of the
customer into the strategy of the Company.

Healthy and safe working environment
Safeguarding its employees and contractors is the prime area
of focus for the Company. Safety being a line responsibility, the
Company focused on developing people skills, knowledge,
and resources to equip its personnel with the right behavior.
During the year under review (January to December 2020),
apart from certifying its employees on safety, the Company’s
trainings focused on behavioral and job specific aspects
such as Safety Master Class and Resilience for all its
managers and specific trainings and certification programs
imparted to nominated members such as the Institution
of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) and National
Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health
(NEBOSH). Electrical safety trainings for all service personnel
was also completed by the Company. The Company clocked
around 20,000 man-hours of training during the period
under review.
Although most of the trainings were done virtually, the intense
HSE/SA trainings continued to happen despite the pandemic
in keeping the employees upgraded and updated on the HSE/

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

SA developments. The Auditor certification program is an
example. Close to 100 percent of employees and contractors
were trained on topics related to occupational health and
safety. Resilience was a focus this year, connecting with the
employees and their families to cope up with the pandemic
and the mechanisms to be resilient and overcome the
pandemic turbulence over 100 sessions on the topic completed
through the year.

along with the good practices recommended to safeguard our
employees from the virus attack. The Company took extensive
steps in training the employees on COVID-19 and the hygiene
practices those were to be followed to stay safe.

To ensure safe operations, hazard reporting resolution of
reported hazards was implemented. The Company received a
total of 13,000 hazards during the period under review and
99 percent of the reported hazards were resolved during the
period under review and the balance being done. A total of
around 3,000 Sustainability Observations Tours (SOTs) were
conducted during the period under review across the Company
which included not just safety but also health, environment
and security related observations. The Company clocked a
total of 12 million contractor man-hours worked and 14 million
employee man-hours worked, with zero work related
fatality, zero serious injuries, one high potential incident, two
lost time injuries and five medical treatment injuries. The
Company worked and achieved the objective of TRIFR
reduction by 20 percent when compared to the previous year.

The Company also tied up with hospitals across major cities of
operations and had a tie-up with a national level service
provider to support the employees and their families with
testing, treatment, consultation, supply of medicines, personal
counselling and other value-added services.

To motivate and propagate good safety practices
within the Company, it continued to appreciate and
reward key innovations, best practices by individuals and
teams and these were recognized and rewarded under the
Company’s annual HSE and Sustainability awards program.
The HSE/SA Award program was launched early December
2020 under seven main categories for employees and
contractors to participate. The award winners would be
announced during 2021. The Company also followed the fair
process to recognise contributions to HSE.

The Company has made significant progress towards its
energy and climate goals. The Company’s grid electricity
consumption in the year was 30,538 MWh of which
47.5 percent is via renewable power purchase which in turn
reduced its scope-emissions. Renewables power purchase
and in-house solar installations for street lighting has supported
the environmental objectives.

The Company established the HSE/SA Board and the board
meets and reviews the performance of the HSE/SA Quarterly.
The business performance over the quarter is reviewed and
actions proposed for further development. A comprehensive
physical audit of the factories were carried out at the start of
the year, with over 2,000 gaps being identified and the business
closed all of the identified Hazards in a sustainable manner.
Occupational health and wellbeing continued to be another key
HSE/SA focus for the Company. Various health programs
such as occupational health checks for critical functions,
resilience program with focus on breathing meditation,
relaxation sessions, yoga and stretching exercise sessions
were conducted. Training sessions on the usage of Automated
External Defibrillator (AED) that have been deployed across
locations and on Basic Life Support (BLS) were conducted.
There was also increased communication by the Company on
general health information to all employees through various
means including weekly mail communications. The Company
came out with the ‘NO TOBACCO’ program and converted all
facilities as Tobacco free Zones.
Health was an area of focus during the year due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, Governmental guidelines were followed

The Company also came up with the voluntary COVID-19
screening camp at free of cost for employees and contractors
and over 5,000 beneficiaries from this program.

Environmental management
The Company is compliant with all statutory requirements
related to environment, and specific environment-related
challenges are addressed under the direct supervision of
location heads. There were no monetary fines/penalties for
Environmental non-compliances paid by the Company during
the period under review.

The Company had undertaken several energy optimization
projects across all factories which includes, replacing
conventional lightings with LED lamps, maintaining power
factor at unity, provision of Variable Frequency Drives for
HVAC systems, replacement of old motors with energy
efficient ones, installation of advantage power regulators and
all of these resulting in over 20,00,000 kWH consumption
reduction through the year

Water management
Water withdrawal in the year was 300 KL at the Company’s
Mysore manufacturing. In 2020, Mysuru factory achieved
20 percent reduction of specific water consumption and
Halol factory achieved 26 percent reduction of specific
water consumption. Although the manufacturing processes
in most sites of the Company are not water intensive, water
is considered material to its operations due to the growing
demand for freshwater in the country. Efforts to reduce
freshwater withdrawals include conservative use of water in
its operations by using water efficient fixtures in buildings and
water reuse. Closed loop systems are used for the Company’s
cooling systems and industrial processes and in-house
Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) aid in the Company’s
recycling efforts. Water treated in the Company’s STP is used
for irrigation of gardens and for sanitation purposes. The
Company had merged multiple small effluent treatments

19

20

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

plants into one single treatment plant to improve efficiency,
unified RO plants installed to reuse process water and reduce
natural water intake, water plants efficiency improvement,
increased monitoring plan to optimize water consumption,
leakage arrest by replacement of pipes and fittings resulted
in an optimized water consumption with a specific water
consumption reduction by our sites.
The Company took up several Lean Six Sigma projects across
all manufacturing locations to improve the environmental
performance of the Company.

Waste management
Reducing generation of waste and reducing the wastes that
is sent for final disposal remains the Company’s focal area.
Waste reduction is incorporated in the product design stage
to ensure waste minimization in manufacturing process. Source
segregation of waste, in-house recycling of packaging materials
and reuse continues to add more value to waste and reduces
the quantum of non-recyclable wastes that are sent to landfill.
All wastes are sent to relevant Pollution Control Board (PCB)
authorized recyclers. Of the total wastes disposed this year,
70 percent were recycled through these authorized recyclers
and co-processing units whereas the rest was reused by own
and co-production facilities. The Company has also identified
and implemented means to reduce sending waste to landfill
rather sent to co-production. The Company had identified
process for pulp recovery to re-use in the production with an
overall recovery of 300 kg every day. Over 155 tonnes of scrap
was given for co-processing, thus reducing the wastes sent to
landfill or incineration. The Company understands that it is
important to minimize the environmental impact related to
its own manufacturing and service activities, and the real
challenge is in reducing the impact along the whole value chain
which includes the impact from its products, from material
selection through production, operation and end-of-life
treatment. A majority of the Company’s products have a very
long operating lifetime, hence, high efficiency and low
emissions during operation of the product are essential in
reducing the total environmental impact.
The Company took up several Lean Six Sigma projects on
waste minimization and re-use. The packing wood project
resulted in over 10,000 sqft of packing wood being reused by
the Peenya factory resulting in over 20 percent of wood waste
reduction. The Company’s Mysuru factory took up a project to
re-use waste, resulted in 200 MT of wood dust collected,
compressed as briquettes and used as biofuel in the boiler.
Group uses a process called the Gate Model for product
and technology development. Sustainability aspects are
built into this model and includes a standardized Life Cycle
Assessment (LCA) procedure. The Group also develops
Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) to communicate
the environmental performance of core products over its
entire life cycle. EPDs are based on detailed LCA studies
conducted using the LCA model and declared according to
international standard ISO/TR 14025.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

LCAs have been conducted for various products such as
power transformers, gas insulated switchgears, and current
relays, etc. and these also have environmental product
declarations (EPD). EPDs provide quantitative information on
all concerned aspects in comparable terms, for example
energy used, resources, materials used, global warming
effects and use of non-renewable resources in each one of
the phases.

Supply chain sustainability
The Company extends its influence to ensure a responsible
working environment of direct and indirect stakeholders. This
includes partners in the supply chain who share considerable
footprint in the product value chain.
The Company’s Supplier Code of Conduct is the basis on
which the Company builds its strategy to source responsibly.
The Supplier Code of Conduct defines the Company’s
requirements for its suppliers and is integrated with the General
Terms & Conditions. The Company considers its suppliers as
business partners and requires that they conduct their business
consistent with the standards and principles of the Company.
Complying with the applicable environmental and OHS
regulations, internationally proclaimed human rights standards
and ensuring equality of opportunity are expected as the
minimum level of commitment.
The Company has implemented a Supplier Sustainability
Development Program (SSDP) as part of a comprehensive
sustainable sourcing initiative. The goal of SSDP is to ensure
compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct, support
continual improvement of the sustainability performance of
suppliers and to provide customers with a highly competitive
and sustainable supply chain. In the scope of this program, the
Company selects a group of suppliers each year. Then they are
trained and audited to identify areas of improvement in the
following domain:
•
•
•
•
•
•

General management
Working hours
Remuneration
Social benefits
Health and safety
Environmental protection

In the year 2020, your Company assessed 15 high risk suppliers
and completed training for them. Further the GPQS (Grid
Power Quality Systems) SCM (Supply Chain Management)
also conducted Supplier Assessment of 6 identified suppliers,
through virtual audits with in-house certified sustainability
auditors, despite the COVID-19 pandemic situation.
This program helped the participating suppliers identify and
mitigate risks and strengthen their systems. Also, through this
program, the risk profiles of the selected suppliers have shown
steady improvement. In fact, in one Local Operating Unit,
Quality Supply Base achieved HSE assessments as high as
99 percent.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

With the pandemic, the Company took proactive approach and
adopted several measures to conduct the supplier assessments
with the new norm by adopting remote audits as one of the
methods. The supplier training and assessments were carried
out remotely in most of the cases. Further the team was
able to complete onsite assessments for suppliers in certain
countries like, Indonesia, Vietnam and Malaysia with all the
required precautions as mandated by local government
authorities. While doing so, we ensured that none of our
employees, suppliers’ personnel and our third party service
providers were exposed to any risk.
For every area of non-compliance identified during our
supplier assessments, the Company launches a supplier
support action to systematically address each issue in turn.
The Company’s support actions include capacity building,
customized participatory workshops, sharing best practices,
jointly implemented collaborative programs, and transfer of
knowledge and expertise.
With a focus to develop our internal resources, in India, the
Company launched SSDP Lead Assessor certification
program for our nine Internal SCM professionals, enabling
them to conduct supplier assessments independently after
the successful completion of the program.

Advocacy, aid and corporate
responsibility bodies
The Company is operating in a dynamic, competitive, and
regulated environment, making the operations and compliance
more complex.
The Company is committed to follow the law of the land and has
a policy of zero tolerance to non-compliance which is an integral
part of its culture and operating philosophy. To support, streamline
and adapt quickly with the ever changing policy framework, we
have following key industry memberships (a) Confederation of Indian Industries
(b) Indian Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers’ Association
(c) Sweden Chamber of Commerce India
(d) Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry
(e) Central Board of Irrigation and Power

People well-being
The Company continues to attract top talent due to its
inclusive culture and the immense opportunities available for
nurturing their talent. The people strategy is aligned with the
Company’s overall ambition to be a pioneering technology
leader. This requires a stable work environment in a growing
market by maximizing the potential of the Company’s
workforce. To ensure that the Company continues to attract
top talent, multiple employer branding initiatives were
launched not limiting to career fairs, recruitment drives,
university connect programmes and internship opportunities.
During the year, the Company has consistently set a clear
path to learn and adapt to perform better in the changing

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

market situation with its enhanced performance management
and talent strategy, focusing on building a healthy pipeline by
attracting, assessing and developing talent.
In addition, persistent attention to provide an inclusive
environment to promote diversity in gender, age and culture,
including opportunities for global mobility, also form a part of
the proactive plan to manage talent in key function areas.
The Company’s competency has been aligned with the
business strategy.
The Company recognized exceptional performance and
behavior in line with organizational values through its rewards
and recognition programme. There was continuous focus on
improving the diversity in the workforce throughout the year.
An ex-employee outreach programme was also launched to
encourage rehiring of performers who may have left for various
reasons. The entire approach to well-being was based on
increasing diversity, promoting inclusion and recognizing
performance. Medical check-ups and camps were set up
through the year to promote physical wellbeing.

Learning and development
Never have we been so severely tested before on the
resilience front than recently when we were ourselves
coping and helping our customers and employees cope with
the COVID-19 outbreak. While the Company’s learning and
development (L&D) function continued our focus on leadership
and professional development programs, we also shifted gears
in incorporating self-paced learning and steered away from the
status quo through various programs not limited to change
management, resilience and others to help employees redefine
business problems in a way that makes new, innovative
responses possible. The Company’s L&D team also saw the
transformation of the Global Training Programs such as PG4U,
Middle Managers Program, Leadership Essentials Program
and Female Talent Development Program. L&D Partners are
aligned to enable effective partnering with the business and
provide customized learning solutions. While Leadership
Development and most other L&D initiatives are in-house, the
L&D team also works closely with external training partners to
meet certain demands which requires customization. This
year, there was increased focus on developing cross cultural
awareness and preparing managers to deal with a workforce
which is increasingly diverse and technology friendly. At ABB
Power Products & Services India Ltd, a self-paced lifelong
learning integrated effectively into our workday, is our
instrument of choice to empower our employees.
Our workforce leverages Percipio - the newly launched digital
learning which platform which houses 500,000+ multi-modal
courses, videos, books and micro-learning modules averaging
148 minutes of learning per person per day. Through Percipio,
our employee have access to a library of over various learning
assets including 15,000+ books and 1,200+ audio books
created and curated by subject matter experts. The employees’
learning journeys are tailored to suit individual personas. In
addition to Percipio, employees also have access to other
learning platforms like your Company’s LMS, EF (for mastering

21

22

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

English language), Rosetta Stone (for gaining other language
skills) and Culture Wizard (to get acclimatized with various
cultures across the world). Our webinars, loaded with adaptive
course curriculum, challenge our employees to expand the
scope of their capabilities on their own terms. To top it all,
we’ve introduced mentoring programs and buddy systems to
support employees amass better knowledge retention and
even proposes adjacent development opportunities.

Career development and opportunities
Keeping a strong focus on Talent pipeline development, ABB
Power Products & Systems India Ltd has embarked on a ‘Build
& Develop’ journey this year, with the objective of enabling a
powerful talent ecosystem that helps build and develop
capabilities for the future. We are building a new paradigm of
‘hybrid jobs’ that combine technology, domain and industry
experience. This enables us to attract skillsets that complement
our growth paradigm. We are also reskilling our workforce
through structured learning paths and offering them a new-age
skill identity through various talent assessments & customized
learning to bridge skill gaps. The Company continues to enable
internal talent growth and development by offering open
dialogues, having regular performance and development reviews
including structured feedback, knowledge transfer and other
opportunities for enriching their career. Talent redeployment has
been encouraged by providing avenues for internal mobility
through talent rotation when any new opportunity of hire arises.
Adding to this, opportunities to work on different projects locally
and across geographies / businesses are also been provided.
The Company encourages its employees to progress
within the organization as opportunities arise. The organization
has a strong talent management process to evaluate the
best of talent, encourage and provide career development
opportunities for promising employees through individual career
development plans. Developing leaders internally continues to
be a priority for the Company & with that in mind, succession
plans are developed for all critical roles in the organization post
talent risk assessments and engagement study.

Diversity and inclusion
As a young organization, ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited did witness the launch of Diversity 360 - a new
mindset, stronger culture, and new way of working in 2020. Our
vision is to position Diversity & Inclusion at the core of our longterm business success. We believe Diversity + Collaboration =
Innovation. With Diversity 360 in place, the organization
promises to deliver brilliant employee experiences as a new
Company, where our extraordinary talents are given the right
environment and are empowered to thrive. Diversity 360 works
across four workstreams:
1. A new leadership model which focuses on D&I strategy
being embedded into our everyday behaviors, policies, and
leadership decisions.
We focused on developing a new leadership model through

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

a people partnership approach engaging employees to
define future leader needs and expectations, utilized
appreciative inquiry methodology for collecting information,
validated and co-created a unique leadership model with
International Institute for Management Development (IMD).
2. Female Acceleration with a commitment to increase
gender diversity from 8 percent to 10 percent and progress
female representation in middle management and top
leadership roles.
This year, the organization focused to strengthen early talent
pipeline through university hiring programs and strengthen
our female talent attraction strategy to improve diverse
experienced professionals’ hires. Key talent identification
and dedicated development programs to ensure female
talent enablement & exposure (Female Talent Development
Program) also has been on top of the list.
3. Live Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) to create the cultural basis
for collaboration and inclusiveness.
To foster the D&I culture in our organisation, ABB Power
Products & Systems India Ltd focused on incorporating
D&I as each business unit’s accountability by launching
SPECTRUM – India’s diversity & inclusion forum.
SPECTRUM provides a platform for employees’ networking
and engagement and also works with diversity councils to
execute D&I initiatives across business units and also
measure the effectiveness of all such initiatives. Different
awareness programs including unconscious bias programs
which help the people managers deep dive into
understanding unconscious bias and actions and behaviors
that interrupt or mitigate biases were imparted.
4. Attract and grow talent to spotlight our values =
purpose and social innovation. The organization focused
on amending talent attraction policies like Employee
Referral Program with improved incentive schemes, early
talent attraction policy for university hires with retention
schemes etc. to accelerate diversity hiring in India. We
created an Employee Value Proposition built on the
foundation of our greater purpose, the scale and impact
of our work, and how we develop and power careers.
The organization continues to create opportunities to
grow and develop internal talent - solving the challenges
of today and the demands of the future.
The organization through various efforts and initiatives sustained
and grew its diversity to 8 percent in 2020.
S.N Key human resource data of the Company for the year

2020

1

Total number of permanent employees

2,290*

2

New employees added

168

3

Apprentice / Interns / Trainees

346

4

Total number of employees hired on contractual basis

297

5

Number of women employees of the total number of
permanent employees

136

6

Number of permanent employees with disabilities

7

Recognized employee association

YES

8

Percentage of permanent employees who are members of
the recognized association

25%

*As on December 31, 2020

10

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Respecting and promoting human
rights
Our values are rooted in respect, including respect for the
human rights of every single person who works for or with us.
Respecting and promoting human rights in our business
activities is one of our priorities in our Communities impact
area. The Group recognizes that respect for human rights is
a basic requirement and that failure to do so can cause harm
to people and adversely affect business, with potential legal,
financial and reputational consequences.
The Company follows its Human Rights Policy and a Social
Policy to respect human rights and to avoid causing or
contributing to adverse human rights impacts through own
activities. The policy draws on the Universal Declaration of
human rights, the International Labour Organization (ILO)
core conventions on labor standards, United Nations
Global Compact (UNGC), The Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, UN sustainable development goals
(SDG) and the Social Accountability (SA) 8000 standard. All
employees have access to the human rights e-learning, which
describes the human rights principles and risks for the
Company. The Company has made a provision, employees
shall report any human rights risk or violation that might occur
during projects, services and operations of the Company.
Human Rights performance are being monitored based on
relevant indicators to evaluate and to prevent human rights
impacts in all of the Company’s operations and workplaces.
The Company’s Human Rights and Social Policies specifically
refer to the ILO core conventions as the minimum to be
achieved, with respect to non-discrimination, prohibition of
child and enforced labor, freedom of association and the right
to engage in collective bargaining. The United Nations (UN)
guiding principles are central to the Company’s human rights
training. A global awareness-raising program for all focuses
on understanding how the Company can potentially impact
human rights, the importance of due diligence and how the
Company is embedding human rights in business processes,
a global capacity building program is under way.
During the year under review, the Company has not
received any grievances related to human rights. The
Company, in line with the Group policy, seeks to raise its
standards, and increase its understanding, and mitigation
of human rights risks.
The Company is of the view that, its work on respecting and
promoting human rights contributes to UN’s Sustainability
Development Goals 4, 5, 8, 9, 10 and 17.

Integrity, transparency and
accountability
The Company’s Code of Conduct is the framework that
explains the behaviour the Company expects of every
employee and stakeholder who work with it. The Company’s
Code of Conduct provides a framework to put business
principles into practice with utmost integrity. It is a breach
of the Company Code of Conduct to fail to report a violation
or suspected violation that employees know about or to
refuse to cooperate with the investigation of a suspected
violation. Each employee is responsible for ensuring that his
or her conduct and the conduct of anyone reporting to the
employee fully comply with all applicable laws and the
Company Code of Conduct. The Group has developed and
implemented a systematic approach designed to prevent,
detect and resolve any potential integrity concerns. This is
supported by tools and processes and a zero-tolerance
policy for any violations.
The Company’s integrity program has created an environment
where all its employees can be open about identifying risks,
asking questions, and raising concerns. This is in line with
the Group uses as systematic approach, designed to foster
a culture of integrity and compliance. This is carried out
through leadership and business accountability, supported
by strong tools and processes, and a zero-tolerance policy
for violations. As a part of the Group integrity program
employees of the Company are not just encouraged but are
required to speak up and to report any suspected or observed
violations of the law, the Company Code of Conduct, or if they
are asked to do something that might be a violation. They are
to report on any of their concerns initially to their direct
management, country head of integrity, country human
resources manager, or alternatively, through country specific
business ethics hotline numbers and e-mail which is routed
to the Office of Special Investigations (OSI), which is a
corporate function within the Company. The Company’s OSI
along with the integrity team then work towards investigation,
and resolution of issues reported there-in.
The Company has multiple reporting channels available to all
its employees/stakeholders and this includes a Business ethics
hotline and an email id that is available for employees to report

23

24

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

integrity and compliance concerns or seek guidance. There
is a web-based reporting system available for employee/
stakeholders reporting (http://pg.ethicspoint.com/). All reports
received are subjected to appropriate investigation, follow up,
and brought to full closure; systematic process and tracking
system and the Company enforces a rigorous non-retaliation
policy. The Company’s Anti-Corruption Policy is stated
explicitly in the Corporate Regulations on bribery and
anti-corruption and emphasizes key components that are
essential for ensuring strict compliance to anti-bribery laws but
also refraining from corruption. The Company enforces a
rigorous zero-tolerance policy against any involvement in
bribery or corruption and has put in place robust policies to
prevent bribery such as on gifts, entertainment and expenses,
charitable contributions and representatives, and measures to
ensure ethical supply chains.

workplace and for prevention and redressal of complaints of
sexual harassment and for matters connected there with or
incidentals thereto. The Company has Internal Complaints
Committee at each location and establishments (all locations
where more than 10 women are employed). One complaint was
received during the year under review and the inquiry was
completed during the year under review.

The Company also ensures continuous compliance with
competition and antitrust laws. The Company Code of Conduct
requires the Company to compete fairly, safeguard confidential
information and be mindful of antitrust risks. The Company’s
behaviour within its teams, with customers, other business
partners and in the communities where it operates, are guided
by its business principles - respect, responsibility and
determination - in compliance with antitrust requirements. The
Anti-Trust Guidance Notes aim to address practical business
situations and provide rules and guidance for all Company
employees on how to conduct themselves in order to comply
with antitrust requirements. The Company has an Internal
Complaints Committee for the prevention of sexual harassment
as a part of the sexual harassment of women at workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 that aims to
provide protection against sexual harassment of women in the

The policy is drawn principally on six sources:
1. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights
2. The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
3. The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and Rights at work
4. The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
5. The Global Sullivan Principles and
6. The Social Accountability 8000 (SA 8000) standard

Community engagement
The Company’s Social Policy focuses on society, human
rights, children and young workers, freedom of engagement,
health and safety, harassment and disciplinary practices,
working hours, compensation, suppliers, community
involvement and business ethics.

The Company has its Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR) policy and framework for action along with clear focal
areas against which community engagement projects are
taken up predominantly in and around its factory locations.
Please refer CSR report published elsewhere in this
Annual Report for amount spent during the year ended
December 31, 2020.

Energy Performance improvement
Steps taken and impact on
conservation of energy

• Replaced conventional and Metal Halide lights with energy efficient Light Emitting Diode light fixtures in office,
production bays, testing and store areas. All upcoming infrastructure investments are planned with installation of
energy efficient Light Emitting Diode.
• Power saving in lighting achieved by installing motion sensors in washrooms. Installed Timers in High Bay Light
fixtures of Core, Assembly and Active part area in Large and Medium Power Transformers factory. It has resulted
in Energy saving by controlling the operation of lights in day hours.
• Installed Variable Frequency Drive in Air compressor. It resulted in energy saving by reducing energy losses in load
and no-load cycle of Air compressor.
• Power factor for the year 2020 was maintained at 0.99 by replacing faulty capacitors, increasing the frequency of
periodic/preventive maintenance to identify faulty units, replacement of fixed capacitor bank by automatic power
factor correction panel.
• The old centralized air compressor system is upgraded by installing new energy efficient, automated, Variable
Frequency Drive based Air compressor near to the load in Live Tank Breakers and Instrument Transformers factories.
It has resulted in saving in energy by reducing the line losses and by increasing the cut off hours of the compressor.
• The old underground Mild Steel line of fire hydrant network replaced by stainless steel pipes. It has resulted in saving
in water and energy by reducing the frequent operation of Jockey Pump.
• Reduction in operating pressure of compressor and attending the leakages thus reducing the operational hours of
compressor
• New Reverse Osmosis (RO) Plant was installed for treatment of process water from Central Effluent Treatment Plant.
• Centralized Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) for efficient handling & treatment of process water from production lines
• Treated water (~ 30%) from RO plant is recycled back to the process there by reducing freshwater intake from the river.
• Water audit conducted to find out leakages in the existing network and actions to cap the leakages.

Steps taken by the Company
for utilizing alternate
sources of energy

Rooftop solar Photo Voltaic power in factory locations
Buying green (solar and wind) from energy service companies (wheeled power) for factory operations

Capital Investment on
energy conservation
equipment/solution

•
•
•
•
•

Light Emitting Diode lighting, Motion sensor system for lighting control
Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) in AHU air compressors
Power factor improvement solutions
Centralized Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP)
New Reverse Osmosis (RO) Plant

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Links to policies and programs
Social Policy (ABB Group):
https://search.abb.com/library/Download.aspx?DocumentID=9AKK107991A1293&LanguageCode=en&DocumentPartId=&A
ction=Launch
Human Rights Policy & Statement (ABB Group):
https://search.abb.com/library/Download.aspx?DocumentID=9AKK107991A1296&LanguageCode=en&DocumentPartId=&A
ction=Launch
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (Company):
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance-policies
Sexual harassment of women at the workplace Policy (Company):
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance-policies
Code of Conduct (Company):
https://search.abb.com/library/Download.aspx?DocumentID=9AKK107680A9270&LanguageCode=en&DocumentPartId=&A
ction=Launch
Supplier Code of Conduct (ABB Group):
https://search.abb.com/library/Download.aspx?DocumentID=9AKK107991A3764&LanguageCode=en&DocumentPartId=&A
ction=Launch
Sustainability development goals:
https://search.abb.com/library/Download.aspx?DocumentID=9AKK107991A3764&LanguageCode=en&DocumentPartId=&A
ction=Launch
Corporate Governance (Company):
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance-policies
Integrity Program (Hitachi ABB Group):
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/ch/en/about-us/integrity
Hitachi ABB Whistleblower - Protection Policy (Company):
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/about-us/integrity/reporting-channels/whistleblower-protection-policy

25

26

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Contributing to India’s EV ambition
and demonstrating the future
of smart mobility through our
Grid-eMotion™ portfolio

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

27

28

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Business Responsibility Report 2020
(As per Regulation 34 (2) (f) of the Listing
Regulations, 2015)
SECTION A: GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY
1

Corporate Identity (CIN) of the Company

L31904KA2019PLC121597

2

Name of the Company

ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

3

Registered address

8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092

4

Website

https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en

5

e-mail ID

in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@hitachi-powergrids.com

6

Financial period reported

01.01.2020 TO 31.12.2020

7

Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial activity code wise)

Manufacture of electric transformers, and electricity distribution and control
apparatus - 271

8

List three key products/services that the Company manufactures/
provides (as in balance sheet)

1
2
3

9

Total number of locations where business activity is undertaken by the
Company

16 factories

A Number of International Locations (provide details of major 5):

Branch Office in Bangladesh. (Sri Lanka & Nepal is in process)

B Number of National locations:
10 Markets served by the Company - Local/State/National/International

High Voltage Switchgear of all types
Transformers
Grid Automation products & systems

16 factories in 5 locations and 17 sales offices as on December 31, 2020
Asia, Middle East, Africa, Europe and Americas

SECTION B: FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY
1

Paid up Capital (`)

8.48 crores

2

Total Turnover (`)

3,438.94 crores

3

Total profit after taxes (`)

93.76 crores (after considering other comprehensive income)

4

Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
as a percentage of profit after tax (%)

` 10,814,512 (1.15%)

5

List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred

Refer CSR report attached to the Boards’ Report

SECTION C: OTHER DETAILS
1

Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/Companies?

No

2

Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies participate in the Business
Responsibility (BR) Initiatives of the parent Company? If yes, then
indicate the number of such subsidiary Company(s)

NA

3

Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers, distributors etc.) that the
Company does business with, participate in the BR initiatives of the
Company? If yes, then indicate the percentage of such entity/entities?
[Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]

Less than 30%

SECTION D: BR INFORMATION
1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR
(a) Details of Director/Directors responsible for implementation of the BR policy/policies
1

DIN Number

07032076

2

Name

Venu Nuguri

3

Designation

Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer

(b) Details of the BR Head
1

Name

Chakravarthi Arun

2

Designation

Country HSE

3

Telephone number

080-2204 1800

4

e-mail ID

chakravarthi.arun@hitachi-powergrids.com

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

29

2. Principle - wise (as per National Voluntary Guidelines - NVGs) BR Policy/policies
(a) Details of compliance (Reply in Y/N)
No. Questions
1

Do you have a policy / policies for

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

P1 Environment, Health and Safety Policy
P2 Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
P3 Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace Policy
P4 Anti-Corruption Policy
P5 Whistle Blower Protection Policy
P6 Group Social Policy
P7 Group Human Rights Policy
P8 Hitachi ABB’s Code of Conduct
P9 Hitachi ABB Supplier Code of Conduct
2

Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the relevant
stakeholders?

Yes

3

Does the policy conform to any national/international standards? If yes,
specify? (50 words)

Yes

4

Has the policy being approved by the Board? Is yes, has it been signed
by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director?

Few of the policies have been approved by the Board and other Group
policies are adopted by the Company.

5

Does the Company have a specified committee of the Board/ Director/
Official to oversee the implementation of the policy

The Company has a committee for CSR and Sexual Harassment of
Women at the Workplace. For the other policies, the Company has
adequate internal control on its implementation.

6

Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?

Please refer to the section on ‘Links to the Company Policies and
Programs’ section of the detailed BRR document

7

Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant internal and
external stakeholders?

Yes All of the policies are available to the stake holders through the
Company’s web page

8

Does the Company have in-house structure to implement the policy/
policies?

Yes

9

Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to
the policy/policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to the
policy/policies?

Yes

10

Has the Company carried out independent audit/evaluation of the
working of this policy by an internal or external agency?

No

(b) If answer to the question at serial number 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please explain why: (Tick up to 2 options)
No. Questions

P1

1

The Company has not understood the Principles

NA

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

2

The Company is not at a stage where it finds itself in a position to
formulate and implement the policies on specified principle

NA

3

The Company does not have financial or manpower resources available
for the task

NA

4

It is planned to be done within next 6 months

NA

5

It is planned to be done within the next 1 year

NA

6

Any other reason (please specify)

NA

3.

Governance related to BR

(a)

Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee
of the Board or CEO to assess the BR performance of the Company.
Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year

Annually

(b)

Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the
hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is published?

Yes, FY 2019 being the first financial period, the Company had published
Business Responsibility report for FY 2019 in FY 2020 forming part of
Annual report published in FY 2020.
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/
financial-results--reports-and-presentations

SECTION E: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE
Principle 1
1

Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only
the Company? Yes/No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/
Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others?

No
It extends to the Group/Joint Ventures, Suppliers, Contractors, NGOs and
Others.

2

How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past
financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the
management? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so

436. 100% was replied to.

30

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Principle 2
1

List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has
incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or
opportunities

(a) Gas insulated switch gear
(b) Ester filled transformers
(c) Dry type distribution transformers

2

For each such product, provide the following details in respect of
resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of product
(optional):

Life Cycle Analysis (LCAs) have been conducted for products such as power
transformers, breakers, gas insulated switchgears, current relays, etc. and
these also have environmental product declarations (EPD)

(a) Reduction during sourcing/production/distribution achieved since
the previous year throughout the value chain?

Not available

(b) Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been
achieved since the previous year?

Not available

Does the Company have procedures in place for -sustainable sourcing
(including transportation)?

Yes. The Company has set procedures to select suppliers, contractors and
service providers based on their competence and capability to undertake
tasks and in compliance with the Hitachi ABB Power Grids Supplier Code
of Conduct which includes health & safety, environment, ethics & integrity,
human rights, working conditions among others. As a guiding principle the
Company prefers to do business with compliant and sustainable suppliers.
The Company has set procedures in place for sustainable transportation as
well. At the time of qualification to become Company’s supplier, the vendor
is assessed across sustainability matrix.

3

The Company has implemented a Supplier Sustainability Development
Program (SSDP) as part of a comprehensive sustainable sourcing
initiative. The goal of the SSDP is to ensure compliance with the Supplier
Code of Conduct, to support continual improvement of the sustainability
performance of suppliers and to provide customers with a highly competitive
and sustainable supply chain. In the scope of this program, the Company
trained both suppliers and Company employees, and carried out supplier
audits to identify improvement in the areas of general management, working
hours, remuneration, social benefits, health and safety, environmental
protection etc.
Yes. The Group directive specifically for Sourcing Transport & Logistics
service is a guidance document that the Company follows. Among many
other stringent criteria that the supplier is evaluated upon, key sustainability
aspects that are reviewed for selection include: HSE policy and training
programmes of the vendor, compliance to internal and external certification
of the operations staff of the vendor for HSE training to ensure their
HSE competencies prior to commencement of work, compliance to PPE
requirement, certification of all safety tools, equipment by third party and to
check if the vendor is in compliance with all the governmental environmental
regulations, energy performance improvement and Carbon footprint
initiatives. There are also stringent qualifications across Hitachi ABB Power
Grids’ Human Rights policy, training, and adherence to Hitachi ABB Power
Grids’ RoHS, REACH compliance and to Hitachi ABB Power Grids List of
Restricted and Prohibited Substances for supplier qualification.

4

5

(a) If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably?
Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.

All of the Company’s suppliers mandatorily go through a stringent evaluation
and qualification criteria before they are registered with the Company. The
qualification procedures include all aspects of sustainability performance.

Has the Company taken any steps to procure goods and services from
local & small producers, including communities surrounding their place
of work

Yes. Businesses do have their list of local suppliers. However, the Company
has moved towards a centralized procurement team and all of its supplier’s
and suppliers need to meet with the set of qualification requirements of the
Company.

(a) If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and
capability of local and small vendors?

The Company has analysed and identified the most common issue of its
suppliers as “limited knowledge in legal requirements related to factory”
during sustainability assessments. Training materials on relevant local
laws and information has been made available to the participants of the
SSDP.

Does the Company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste?
If yes what is the percentage of recycling of products and waste
(separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details thereof, in
about 50 words or so

Yes. Greater than 10%

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Principle 3
1

Please indicate the total number of employees

Permanent employees: 2,290

2

Please indicate the total number of employees hired on temporary/
contractual/casual basis

New employees added in the year: 168
Apprentice/Interns/Trainees: 346
Contract employees: 297

3

Please indicate the number of permanent women employees

136

4

Please indicate the number of permanent employees with disabilities

15

5

Do you have an employee association that is recognized by
management?

YES

6

What percentage of your permanent employees are members of this
recognized employee association?

25%

7

Please indicate the number of complaints relating to child labour,
forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last
financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year

There were no complaints relating to child labour, forced labour and
1 complaint was filed under sexual harassment during the year

8

No. Category

No of complaints filed during the
financial year

No of complaints filed pending at end of the
financial year

1

Child labour/forced labour/involuntary labour

NIL

NIL

2

Sexual harassment

1

NIL

3

Discriminatory employment

NIL

NIL

What percentage of your under mentioned employees were given safety
& skill up-gradation training in the last year?

Yes. All the Company’s employees underwent safety related training and
skill upgradation on a periodical basis

(a) Permanent Employees

During the period under review over 15,000 manhours of training imparted
to permanent employees

(b) Permanent Women Employees

During the period under review over 1000 manhours of training was
imparted to permanent women employees

(c) Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees

This category of employees is subjected to skill-based training depending
on the work and job roles. Training matrix is designed based on their job risk
profiles. As and when required, refresher trainings are provided to upgrade
skills based on any changes in the work/job profiles of employees.
During the period under review 10,000 manhours were clocked for
contractor safety trainings

(d) Employees with Disabilities

Training on various aspects are given to employees including persons with
disabilities

Principle 4
1

Has the Company mapped its internal and external stakeholders?
Yes/No

Yes

2

Out of the above, has the Company identified the disadvantaged,
vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders

Yes. The Company has identified vulnerable groups who are targeted for
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)

3

Are there any special initiatives taken by the Company to engage with
the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders? If so,
provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so

Yes, the Company has undertaken CSR initiatives in FY 2020

Principle 5
1

Does the policy of the Company on human rights cover only the
Company or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/
NGOs/Others?

No. It is applicable to all – Group, Joint Ventures, Suppliers, Contractors,
NGOs and Others

2

How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past
financial year and what percent was satisfactorily resolved by the
management

NIL

31

32

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Principle 6
1

Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the Company or extends No, It is applicable to all – Group, Joint Ventures, Suppliers, Contractors,
to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others?
NGOs and Others

2

Does the Company have strategies/initiatives to address global
environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc.?
Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc

Yes
Energy and Climate (hitachi-powergrids.com)
Hazardous Substances and Biodiversity (hitachi-powergrids.com)
Planet (hitachiabb-powergrids.com)
Sustainability (hitachiabb-powergrids.com)

3

Does the Company identify and assess potential environmental risks?
Y/N

Yes

4

Does the Company have any project related to Clean Development
Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Also,
if Yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed?

No

5

Has the Company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean technology, Yes
energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, please give
hyperlink for web page etc

6

Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the Company within the
permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being
reported

Yes

7

Number of show cause/legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB which
are pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of financial year

NIL

Principle 7
1

Is your Company a member of any trade and chamber or association?
If yes, name only those major ones that your business deals with:

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

2

Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the
advancement or improvement of public good? Yes/No; if yes specify
the broad areas ( drop box: Governance and Administration, Economic
Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food
Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others)

No

Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)
Indian Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers’ Association (IEEMA)
Sweden Chamber of Commerce India
Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry
Central Board of Irrigation and Power

Principle 8
1

Does the Company have specified programmes/initiatives/projects in
pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof.

Yes. The Company has a CSR policy and activities are on 5 key focal areas
for its social development projects.

2

Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house team/ own
Yes
foundation/external NGO/government structures/any other organization?

3

Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?

NA

4

What is your Company’s direct contribution to community development
projects- Amount in ` and the details of the projects undertaken?

Please refer CSR annexure forming part of Directors report.

5

Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development
initiative is successfully adopted by the community? Please explain in
50 words, or so.

Please refer CSR annexure forming part of Directors report.

Principle 9
1

What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are pending
as on the end of financial year.

NIL

2

Does the Company display product information on the product label,
over and above what is mandated as per local laws? Yes/No/NA/
Remarks (additional information)

No

3

Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the Company
regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/or anticompetitive behaviour during the last five years and pending as on end
of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.

No

4

Did your Company carry out any consumer survey/consumer satisfaction Yes
trends?

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

33

Notice to the Members
NOTICE is hereby given that the SECOND ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING of the Members of ABB Power
Products and Systems India Limited (“the Company”) will
be held on Thursday, May 27, 2021 at 11.00 am (IST)
through Video Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio Visual
Means (“OAVM”) including remote e-voting process to
transact the following businesses. The venue of the meeting
shall be deemed to be the Registered Office of the
Company at 8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli
Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092.

Ordinary Business:
Item No. 1 - Adoption of Financial Statements and
Reports of the Board of Directors and the Auditors
thereon.
To receive, consider and adopt the financial statements,
namely, (i) the Audited Balance Sheet as at December 31,
2020, (ii) the Audited Statement of Profit & Loss Account for
the financial year ended December 31, 2020, (iii) the Cash
Flow Statement for the financial year ended December 31,
2020, (iv) statement of changes in Equity, if any, (v) an
Explanatory Note annexed to, or forming part of, the
documents referred to in (i) to (iv) above and the Reports of
Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon.
Item No. 2 - Declaration of dividend.
To declare a dividend of ` 2/- per Equity Share of ` 2/- each
for the financial year 2020.

Special business:
Item No. 3 - Appointment of Mr. Achim Michael Braun
(DIN: 08596097) as a Director.
To consider and, if thought fit, to give your assent or dissent
to the following Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections
149, 152, 161 and any other applicable provisions of the
Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder
including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment
thereof for the time being in force read with the Articles of
Association of the Company, Mr. Achim Michael Braun
(DIN: 08596097), who was appointed as Additional Director
on February 25, 2021 and who holds office up to the date of
this Annual General Meeting under Section 161(1) of the
Companies Act, 2013 read with Article 94 of the Articles
of Association of the Company and pursuant to the

recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee and as approved by the Board of Directors at its
meeting held on February 25, 2021 in respect of whom the
Company has received a notice in writing under Section
160(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 from a Member proposing
his candidature for the office of Director, be and is hereby
appointed as a Director (Non-Executive and NonIndependent Director and Chairman) of the Company, liable
to retire by rotation.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company and/or any of the Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company for the time being, be and are hereby jointly and
severally be authorized to file necessary returns/forms with
the Registrar of Companies and to do all such acts, deeds
and things that may be necessary, proper, expedient or
incidental for the purpose of giving effect to the aforesaid
resolution.”
Item No. 4 - Appointment of Mr. Ismo Antero Haka
(DIN: 08598862) as a Director.
To consider and, if thought fit, to give your assent or dissent
to the following Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections
149, 152, 161 and any other applicable provisions of the
Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder including
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the
time being in force read with the Articles of Association of the
Company, Mr. Ismo Antero Haka (DIN: 08598862), who was
appointed as Additional Director on February 25, 2021 and
who holds office up to the date of this Annual General Meeting
under Section 161(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with
Article 94 of the Articles of Association of the Company and
pursuant to the recommendation of the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee and as approved by the Board of
Directors at its meeting held on February 25, 2021 in respect
of whom the Company has received a notice in writing under
Section 160(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 from a Member
proposing his candidature for the office of Director, be
and is hereby appointed as a Director (Non-Executive and
Non-Independent Director) of the Company, liable to retire
by rotation.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company and/or any of the Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company for the time being, be and are hereby jointly and
severally be authorized to file necessary returns/forms with
the Registrar of Companies and to do all such acts, deeds
and things that may be necessary, proper, expedient or
incidental for the purpose of giving effect to the aforesaid
resolution.”

34

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Item No. 5 - Approval of remuneration to the Cost Auditor
of the Company for Financial period from January 01,
2021 to March 31, 2022.
To consider and, if thought fit, to give your assent or dissent
to the following Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 148
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act,
2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,
2014, the payment of remuneration of ` 1,850,000/- (Rupees
Eighteen lakhs and Fifty thousand only) per annum plus
applicable taxes and out of pocket expenses actually
incurred during the course of audit to M/s. Ashwin
Solanki & Associates, Cost Accountants (Firm Registration
No.100392) appointed as Cost Auditor, by the Board of
Directors of the Company to conduct the audit of the cost
records of the Company for the Financial period ending
March 31, 2022, (15 months from January 01, 2021 to March
31, 2022) be and is hereby approved.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company (including its Committee thereof), be and is hereby
authorized to do all acts and take all such steps as may
be necessary, proper or expedient to give effect to this
resolution.”
Item No. 6 - To borrow money in excess of prescribed
limit as per Companies Act, 2013.
To consider and, if thought fit, to give your assent or dissent
to the following Special Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section
180 (1) (c) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the
Companies Act, 2013 and relevant rules made thereto
including any statutory modifications or re-enactments
thereof and Article 114 of and other applicable provisions of
Articles of Association of the Company, the consent of the
members of the Company be and is hereby accorded to the
Board of Directors of the Company to borrow money, as and
when required, from, including without limitation, any Bank
and/or other Financial Institution and/or foreign lender and/
or any body corporate/ entity/entities and/or authority/
authorities, either in rupees or in such other foreign
currencies as may be permitted by law from time to time, as
may be deemed appropriate by the Board for an aggregate
amount not exceeding a sum of ` 6,000 crore (Rupees Six
Thousand Crore only) for the Company notwithstanding that
money so borrowed together with the monies already
borrowed by the Company, if any (apart from temporary
loans obtained from the Company’s bankers in the ordinary
course of business) may exceed the aggregate of the
paid-up share capital of the Company, its free reserves and
securities premium.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby
authorised to do all acts and take all such steps as may be
necessary, proper or expedient to give effect to this
resolution.”

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

By Order of the Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Bengaluru
February 26, 2021
Registered Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560092
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 2204 1800
Notice:
1. This AGM is convened through Video Conferencing
(“VC”)/Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”) pursuant to
General Circular number 02/2021 dated January 13, 2021
and Circular number 20/2020, dated May 5, 2020 read
with Circular numbers 14/2020 dated April 8, 2020,
17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, 22/2020 dated June 15,
2020, 33/2020 dated September 28, 2020, 39/2020 dated
December 31, 2020 issued by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs (MCA) and Circular number SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/
CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 2020 read with Circular
number SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated
January 15, 2021 issued by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (SEBI (hereinafter collectively referred to
as ‘Circulars’), which allow the companies to hold AGMs
through VC/OAVM.
2.

In compliance with the aforesaid Circulars, this AGM
Notice along with the Annual Report for the financial year
ended December 31, 2020 is sent only through electronic
mode to those Members whose e-mail addresses are
registered with the Company/Depositories. The AGM
notice and Annual Report of the Company are made
available on the Company’s website at https://www.
hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/
financial-results--reports-and-presentations and also
on the website of the Stock Exchanges where the
shares of the Company have been listed viz., BSE Limited
- www.bseindia.com and National Stock Exchange of
India Limited - www.nseindia.com. The Company has
published a Public Notice by way of advertisement in
Kannada Language, the principal vernacular language
of Karnataka and in English language in an English
newspaper with the required details of 2nd AGM for
information of the Members.

3.

The Company has availed the services of National
Securities Depository Limited (NSDL), as the authorised
agency for conducting of the AGM through VC/OAVM
and providing e-voting facility. The Members can join the
AGM in the VC/OAVM mode 30 minutes before the
scheduled time of the commencement of the Meeting by
following the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The
Members will be able to view the proceedings on
the National Securities Depository Limited’s e-Voting

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

website at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com The facility of
participation at the AGM through VC/OAVM will be made
available to at least 1,000 Members on a first come first
served basis as per the MCA Circulars. The detailed
instructions for joining the meeting through VC/OAVM
form part of the Notes to this Notice.
4.

Though a Member entitled to attend and vote at the
meeting, is entitled to appoint one or more proxies
(proxy need not be a member of the Company to attend
and vote instead of himself/herself), the facility of
appointment of Proxies is not available as the AGM is
convened through VC/OAVM.

5.

Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM shall be
counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under
Section 103 of the Act.

6.

7.

8.

9.

In case of joint holders only such joint holder who is higher
in the order of names will be entitled to vote during the
meeting. Corporate/Institutional Members (i.e. other
than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.,) are also required to
send scanned certified true copy (PDF Format) of the
Board Resolution/Authority Letter etc., to attend the
AGM through VC/OAVM on its behalf together with
attested specimen signature(s) of the duly authorised
representative(s), to the Scrutinizer at e-mail: cs.skannan@
gmail.com with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in
The scanned image of the above mentioned documents
should be in the naming format “ABB Power Products and
Systems India Limited 2nd Annual General Meeting.”
The statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies
Act, 2013 and applicable provisions of SEBI (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 2015, setting
out the material facts concerning special business at
Item No 3, 4, 5 and 6 is annexed hereto.
The Register of Members and the Share Transfer Books
of the Company will remain closed from May 21, 2021 to
May 27, 2021 (both days inclusive) for the purpose of
annual general meeting and dividend. The cut-off date
for e-voting is May 19, 2021 and record date for dividend
is May 20, 2021.
The Company is proposing dividend for financial year
ended December 31, 2020. Also, this being the second
financial year of the Company, there was no requirement
to transfer any dividends not encashed or remaining
unclaimed for a period of 7 (seven) years from the date
of transfer to the Company’s Unpaid Dividend Account,
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”),
established under Section 125 of the Companies Act,
2013. Also, there was no requirement to transfer all
shares on which dividend has not been paid or claimed
for seven consecutive years or more to IEPF Authority
as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. As the
Company was incorporated on February 19, 2019, it may
be noted that there is no Unclaimed Dividend lying
with the Company or in IEPF account. Pursuant to the
Scheme of Arrangement (Demerger), for the shares that

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

35

were allotted directly to IEPF account, the concerned
Members/claimants may claim the shares by making an
application to IEPF Authority in Form IEPF 5 (available
on www.iepf.gov.in) along with requisite fee as decided
by it from time to time. The Member/claimant can file
only one consolidated claim in a financial year as per the
IEPF Rules. 9,266 Equity shares arising out of fractional
shares were sold on July 27, 2020 out of that 73.20
equity shares were pertaining to IEPF and net amount
` 49,932.30 (after deduction of taxes) was deposited
into IEPF account on August 3, 2020. The concerned
Members/claimants may claim the proceeds of fractional
shares by making an application to IEPF Authority in
Form IEPF 5 (available on www.iepf.gov.in) along with
requisite fee as decided by it from time to time.
10. Members are requested to intimate, indicating their folio
number, the changes, if any, in their registered address,
either to the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer
Agents (“RTA”), KFin Technologies Private Limited
(“KFintech”) at the address captured under “Information
at a glance” or to their respective Depository Participant
(“DP”) in case the shares are held in dematerialized form.
11. The dividend of ` 2.00/- per Equity Share of ` 2/- each,
as recommended by the Board of Directors of the
Company, if declared by the members at the AGM, will
be paid subject to deduction of income-tax at source
(‘TDS’) on and from Monday, May 31, 2021, as under:
For Shares held in electronic form: To all the
Beneficial Owners as at the end of the day on
Thursday, May 20, 2021 as per the list of beneficial
owners to be furnished by the NSDL and Central
Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”); and
For shares held in physical form: To all the Members
after giving effect to valid transmission and
transposition in respect of valid requests lodged
with the Company as of the close of business hours
on Thursday, May 20, 2021.
12. Pursuant to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend income is
taxable in the hands of the Members w.e.f. 1st April
2020 and the Company is required to deduct TDS from
the dividend paid to the Members at prescribed rates
in the Income Tax Act, 1961 (the “IT Act”). In general, to
enable compliance with TDS requirements, Members
are requested to complete and/or update their
Residential Status, PAN, Category as per the IT Act with
their Depository Participants (“DPs”) or in case shares
are held in physical form, with the Company by sending
documents through e-mail by Thursday, May 20, 2021.
13. It is in the interest of Members to register their bank
details against their account for receiving the credit
of dividend directly to their bank account through
electronic means. Members are requested to note that,
in order to avoid any loss/ interception in postal transit
and also to get prompt credit of dividend through
National Electronic Clearing Service (NECS)/Electronic

36

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Clearing Service (ECS) they should submit their NECS/
ECS details to the Company’s Registrar and Share
Transfer Agents (RTA) in case of holding shares in
physical form and in case Members holding shares in
electronic form, they may submit the NECS/ECS details
to their depository participant.
14. As a part of the green initiatives, the Members who have
not yet registered their e-mail addresses are requested
to register their e-mail addresses with their DPs in case
the shares are held by them in electronic form and with
KFin Technologies Private Limited (“KFintech”) in case
the shares are held by them in physical form. Upon such
Registration, all communication from the Company/
RTA will be sent to the registered e-mail address.

Corporate Affairs under the Companies Act, 2013
requires the Company/Registrars and Share Transfer
Agents to record additional details of Members,
including their PAN details, e-mail address, bank
details for payment of dividend, etc. Members holding
shares in physical form are requested to furnish the
above details to the Company or KFintech, its Registrars
and Share Transfer Agents. Members holding shares in
electronic form are requested to furnish the details to
their respective DP.
Process for registering e-mail addresses to receive this
Notice electronically and cast votes electronically:
i)

Registration of e-mail address permanently with
Company/DP: Members are requested to register
the same with their concerned DPs, in respect of
electronic holding and with KFintech (Registrars
and Share Transfer Agents) in respect of physical
holding, by writing to them at einward.ris@kfintech.
com Further, those Members who have already
registered their e-mail addresses are requested to
keep their e-mail addresses validated / updated
with their DPs/KFintech to enable servicing of
notices / documents / Annual Reports and other
communications electronically to their e-mail
address in future.

ii)

Alternatively, Members may :

15. As required by Regulation 36 of Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the Listing Regulations)
and Secretarial Standard-2 on General Meetings issued
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, the
relevant detail of Director seeking appointment at this
Annual General Meeting is given in the annexure to the
Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
16. The members/investors may send their complaints/
queries, if any to the Company’s Registrar and Share
Transfer Agents’ e-mail ID: einward.ris@kfintech.com
or to the Company’s designated/exclusive e-mail
in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@hitachi-powergrids.com
17. As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act and Rule
19(1) of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures)
Rules, 2014, Members holding shares in physical form
may file nomination in the prescribed Form SH-13 with
the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents. In
respect of shares held in demat form, the nomination
form may be filed with the respective DP.
18. As per Regulation 40 of SEBI Listing Regulations, as
amended, securities of listed companies can be
transferred only in dematerialized form with effect from
April 1, 2019, except in case of request received for
transmission or transposition of securities. Hence, the
Members holding shares in physical form are requested
to consider converting their holdings in the dematerialized
form. The Members who are desirous to convert their
physical holdings into dematerialized form, may contact
the Depository Participant of their choice.
19. All documents referred in the accompanying Notice and
Statement setting out material facts will be available
electronically for inspection for Members on all working
days between 10.00 a.m. and 12.00 noon up to
Thursday, May 27, 2021 being the date of the Annual
General Meeting. Members seeking to inspect such
documents can send an e-mail to in-investorhelpdesk_
appsil@hitachi-powergrids.com.
20. Updation of Members’ details: The format of the
Register of Members prescribed by the Ministry of

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

(1) In case shares are held in physical mode please
provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned
copy of the share certificate (front and back),
PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card),
AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar
Card) by email to in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@
hitachi-powergrids.com
(2) In case shares are held in demat mode, please
provide DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or
16 digit beneficiary ID), Name, client master or
copy of Consolidated Account statement, PAN
(self attested scanned copy of PAN card),
AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar
Card) to in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@hitachipowergrids.com
(3) Alternatively member may send an e-mail
request to evoting@nsdl.co.in for obtaining
User ID and Password by sending all required
documents and information as per the details
mentioned in Point (1) or (2) as the case
may be.
21. To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are advised
to exercise due diligence and notify the Company of any
change in address or demise of any Member as soon as
possible. Members are also advised not to leave their
Demat account(s) dormant for long. Periodic statements
of holdings should be obtained from the concerned DPs
and holdings should be verified from time to time.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

22. Since the AGM being held through VC/OAVM, the Route
Map, Attendance Slip and proxy form are not attached
to this Notice.
23. Remote e-Voting before/during the AGM :
i)

ii)

iii)

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Act
read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management
and Administration) Rules, 2014 (as amended) and
Regulation 44 of SEBI LODR (as amended) and the
MCA Circulars, the Company is providing the
facility of remote e-Voting to its Members in respect
of the business to be transacted at the AGM. For
this purpose, the Company has entered into an
agreement with NSDL for facilitating voting through
electronic means, as the authorised agency. The
facility of casting votes by a Member using remote
e-Voting system as well as remote e-Voting during
the AGM will be provided by NSDL.
Members of the Company holding shares either in
physical form or in electronic form as on the cut-off
date i.e. Wednesday, May 19, 2021 may cast their
vote by remote e-Voting. A person who is not a
Member as on the cut-off date should treat this
Notice for information purposes only. A person
whose name is recorded in the Register of Members
or in the Register of Beneficial Owners maintained by
the depositories as on the cut-off date only shall be
entitled to avail the facility of remote e-Voting before
the AGM as well as remote e-Voting during the AGM.
Any person who acquires shares of the Company
and becomes a Member of the Company after the
dispatch of the Notice and holding shares as on the
cut-off date i.e., Wednesday, May 19, 2021, may
obtain the User ID and Password by sending a
request at evoting@nsdl.co.in.
The remote e-Voting period commences 9.00 a.m.
IST on Saturday, May 22, 2021 and ends at 5.00 p.m.
IST on Wednesday, May 26, 2021. The remote
e-Voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for
voting thereafter. Once the vote on a resolution is
cast by the Member, the Member shall not be allowed
to change it subsequently. The voting rights of the
Members shall be in proportion to their share of the
paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on
the cut-off date i.e., Wednesday, May 19, 2021.

iv) Members will be provided with the facility for voting
through the electronic voting system during the VC
proceedings at the AGM and Members participating
at the AGM, who have not already cast their vote by
remote e-Voting, will be eligible to exercise their right
to vote at the end of discussion on the resolutions on
which voting is to be held, upon announcement by
the Chairperson. Members who have cast their vote
on resolution(s) by remote e-Voting prior to the AGM
will also be eligible to participate at the AGM through
VC/OAVM but shall not be entitled to cast their vote
on such resolution(s) again.

v)

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

37

The remote e-Voting module on the day of the AGM
shall be disabled by NSDL for voting 15 minutes
after the conclusion of the Meeting.

24. Instructions for attending the AGM through VC/OAVM
and remote e-Voting (before and during the AGM) are
given below:
A.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING
THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM
1.

Member will be provided with a facility to
attend the AGM through VC/OAVM through the
NSDL e-Voting system. Members may access
the same at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com
under shareholders/members login by using
the remote e-voting credentials. The link for
VC/OAVM will be available in shareholder/
members login where the EVEN of Company
i.e. 115961 will be displayed. Please note that
the members who do not have the User ID and
Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the
User ID and Password may retrieve the same
by following the remote e-Voting instructions
mentioned in the notice to avoid last minute
rush. Further members can also use the OTP
based login for logging into the e-Voting
system of NSDL.

2.

Members are encouraged to join the Meeting
through Laptops for better experience.

3.

Further Members will be required to allow
Camera and use Internet with a good speed to
avoid any disturbance during the meeting.

4.

Please note that Participants Connecting
from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through
Laptop connecting via Mobile Hotspot may
experience Audio/Video loss due to fluctuation
in their respective network. It is therefore
recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN
Connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid
glitches.

5.

Members are encouraged to submit their
questions in advance with regard to the
financial statements or any other matter to be
placed at the 2nd AGM, from their registered
e-mail address, mentioning their name, DP ID
and Client ID number/folio number and
mobile number, to reach the Company’s
e-mail address at in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@
hitachi-powergrids.com before 5.00 p.m. (IST)
on Monday, May 24, 2021. Such questions by
the Members shall be suitably replied by the
Company.

6.

Members who would like to express their views/
ask questions as a speaker at the Meeting
may pre-register themselves by sending a

38

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

request from their registered e-mail address
mentioning their names, DP ID and Client ID/
folio number, PAN and mobile number at
in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@hitachi-powergrids.
com between Thursday, May 20, 2021 (9.00 a.m.
IST) and Monday, 24, 2021 (5.00 p.m. IST).
Only those Members who have preregistered
themselves as a speaker will be allowed to
express their views/ask questions during
the AGM. The Company reserves the right to
restrict the number of speakers depending on
the availability of time for the AGM.
B.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

b) For Members who
hold shares in demat
account with CDSL.

c) For Members holding EVEN Number followed by
shares in Physical
Folio Number registered with
Form.
the Company
For example if folio number is
001*** and EVEN is 115961
then user ID is 115961001***

5

Your password details are given below:
a)

If you are already registered for e-Voting,
then you can use your existing password
to login and cast your vote.

b)

If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for
the first time, you will need to retrieve the
‘initial password’ which was communicated
to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial
password’, you need to enter the ‘initial
password’ and the system will force you to
change your password.

c)

How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING BEFORE/
DURING THE AGM.
The instructions for Members for remote e-Voting
are as under: The way to vote electronically on
NSDL e-Voting system consists of ‘Two Steps’
which are mentioned below:
Step 1 : Log-in to NSDL e-Voting system at https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/
Step 2 : Cast your vote electronically on NSDL
e-Voting system.

(i)
Details on Step 1 is mentioned below: How to
Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
1.

Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web
browser by typing the following URL: https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal
Computer or on mobile.

2.

Once the home page of e-Voting system is
launched, click on the icon “Login” which is
available under the ‘Shareholders’ section.

3.

A new screen will open. You will have to enter
your User ID, your Password, and a Verification
Code as shown on the screen. Alternatively, if you
are registered for NSDL e-services i.e. IDEAS,
you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com
with your existing IDEAS login. Once you
log-in to NSDL e-services after using your
log-in credentials, click on e-Voting and you
can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote
electronically.

4.

16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your
Beneficiary ID is
12************** then your user
ID is 12**************

If your email ID is registered in
your Demat account or with the
Company, your ‘initial password’ is
communicated to you on your email
ID. Trace the email sent to you from
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the
email and open the attachment i.e. a
.pdf file. Open the .pdf file. The
password to open the .pdf file is your
8 digit client ID for NSDL account, last
8 digits of client ID for CDSL account,
or folio number for shares held in
physical form. The pdf file contains
your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial
password’.

(ii) If your email ID is not registered,
please follow steps mentioned in
process for those shareholders whose
email IDs are not registered.
6.

If you are unable to retrieve or have not received
the “Initial password” or have forgotten your
password:

Your User ID details are given below :
Manner of holding
shares i.e. Demat
(NSDL or CDSL) or
Physical

Your User ID is:

a) For Members who
hold shares in demat
account with NSDL.

8 Character DP ID followed
by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is
IN300*** and Client ID is
12****** then your user ID is
IN300***12******.

a)

Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”
(If you are holding shares in your Demat
account with NSDL or CDSL) option
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.

b)

“Physical User Reset Password?” (If you
are holding shares in physical mode)
option available on https://www.evoting.
nsdl.com

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

c)

If you are still unable to get the password
by aforesaid two options, you can send a
request at evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning
your Demat account number/folio number,
your PAN, your name, and your registered
address.

d)

Members can also use the OTP (“One Time
Password”) based login for casting the
votes on the e-Voting system of NSDL.

7.

After entering your password, tick on Agree to
“Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the
checkbox.

8.

Now, you will have to click on the “Login”
button.

9.

2.

In case of any queries, you may refer the
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for
Shareholders and e-voting user manual for
Shareholders available at the download section
of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on toll free no.:
1800 1020 990 / 1800 224 430.

3.

Any person who acquires shares of the
Company and becomes a Member of the
Company after the dispatch of the Notice and
holding shares as on the cut-off date, i.e.
Wednesday, May 19, 2021, may obtain the User
ID and password by sending a request at
evoting@nsdl.co.in. However, if you are already
registered with NSDL for remote e-Voting,
then you can use your existing user ID and
password for casting your vote. If you forgot
your password, you may reset your password
by using “Forgot User Details/Password”
option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com
or contact NSDL at the following Toll free no.
1800 1020 990 / 1800 224 430.

Details on Step 2 is given below: How to cast your
vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system?
After a successful login at Step 1, you will
be able to see the Home page of e-Voting.
Click on e-Voting. Then, click on Active
Voting Cycles.

2.

After click on Active Voting Cycles, you will
be able to see all the companies “EVEN” in
which you are holding shares and whose
voting cycle is in active status.

3.

Select “EVEN” of the Company for which
you wish to cast your vote.

4.

Now you are ready for e-Voting as the
Voting page opens.

5.

Cast your vote by selecting appropriate
options i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify
the number of shares for which you wish to
cast your vote and click on “Submit” and
also “Confirm” when prompted.

6.

Upon confirmation, the message “Vote
cast successfully” will be displayed.

7.

You can also take the printout of the votes
cast by you by clicking on the print option
on the confirmation page.

8.

Once you confirm your vote on the
resolution, you will not be allowed to
modify your vote.

39

utmost care to keep your password confidential.
Login to the e-voting website will be disabled
upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in
the correct password. In such an event,
you will need to go through the “Forgot User
Details/Password?” or “Physical User Reset
Password?” option available on https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com/ to reset the password.

After you click on the “Login” button, the Home
page of e-Voting will open.

1.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR
e-VOTING ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS
UNDER:
1.

The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the
AGM is same as the instructions mentioned
above for remote e-voting.

2.

Only those Members/shareholders, who will
be present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility
and have not casted their vote on the Resolutions
through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not
barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote
through e-Voting system in the AGM.

3.

Members who have voted through Remote
e-Voting will be eligible to attend the AGM.
However, they will not be eligible to vote at
the AGM.

4.

The details of the person who may be
contacted for any grievances connected with
the facility for e-Voting on the day of the AGM
shall be the same person mentioned for
Remote e-voting.

General Guidelines for Members
1.

It is strongly recommended not to share your
password with any other person and take the

25. Procedure to be followed by the Members updation of
bank account mandate for receipt of dividend (whenever
declared):

40

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

As per the Income Tax Act, 1961, as amended by the
Finance Act, 2020, dividends paid or distributed by
companies on or after April 1, 2020 shall be taxable in
the hands of the shareholders. The Company shall,
therefore, be required to deduct tax at source at the
prescribed rates (“TDS”) at the time of making the
payment of the dividend. Detailed instruction with
regards to the same is given below.
Updation of details for TDS and payment of dividend
You are requested to register/update your Permanent
Account Number, Bank details, Email address, Residential
address, Residential status in India (i.e. Resident or NonResident for FY 2021-22) with your Depository Participant
(in case of electronic holding) or with the Company/
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (in case of physical
holding) latest by May 20, 2021. Details available with
the Company in the Register of Members/Register of
Beneficial Ownership maintained by the Depositories

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

will be relied upon by the Company, for the purpose of
complying with the applicable TDS provisions.
In view of the prevailing lockdown due to COVID-19
pandemic, the dividend will be paid electronically in the
bank accounts of the Members whose Bank details
are available with the Company/Registrar and Share
Transfer Agent.
For the Members, whose Bank details are not updated/
registered as aforesaid, the Company shall dispatch the
same through postal services.
Provisions related to TDS and documents required
You are requested to take note of the below stated TDS
rates and document(s), if any, required to be submitted
to the Company or Registrar for your respective
category on or before May 20, 2021, in order to comply
with the applicable TDS provisions.

Resident Members
Tax is required to be deducted at source under Section 194 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, as amended by the Finance Act, 2020 (“the Act”), at 10% on
the amount of dividend. However, the same may be subject to certain exceptions as per the Act, which are stated hereunder:
For Resident Individuals/ HUF /Domestic
company/ Private trusts/ Other trusts/
Body of Individuals/ Association of
Persons/ Partnership Firm / Limited
Liability Partnership (LLP)/ Alternative
Investment Funds (Category III)
Members

- No tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable to resident individuals if the total dividend to be
received during financial year 2020-21 does not exceed ` 5,000/-.
- No tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable to resident individuals if the Member has provided
Form 15H (applicable to an Individual above the age of 60 years) or Form 15G, as per the attached
formats, provided that all the required eligibility conditions are met.
- In case of Members who have provided a valid certificate issued under section 197 of the Act for
lower / NIL rate of deduction or an exemption certificate issued by income tax authority, the rates
mentioned in such certificate shall be considered for deduction of tax at source.
Note: Registering the valid Permanent Account Number (PAN) for the registered Folio/DP ID/Client
ID is mandatory. In absence of PAN/Valid PAN, tax will be deducted at a higher rate of 20%, as per
Section 206AA of the Act.
Download Forms Click Here to download Form 15H
Click Here to download Form 15G

For Resident Non-Individuals Members

No tax shall be deducted at source on the dividend payable to certain resident non-individuals as per
the provisions of the Act on submission of the documents mentioned below:
(a) Insurance Companies specified in the second proviso to Section 194 of the Act: Declaration
that the insurance company has full beneficial interest with respect to the shares owned by it along
with an attested copy of the PAN of the insurance company.
(b) Mutual Funds: Certificate of registration under Section 10(23D) of the Act issued by the appropriate
authority along with an attested copy of the PAN of the mutual fund.
(c) Alternative Investment Fund: Self-declaration that its income is exempt under Section 10(23FBA)
of the Act and that the Fund is governed by the SEBI Regulations as Category I or Category II
Alternative Investment Fund, along with an attested copy of the PAN and registration certificate.
(d) Other Non-Individual Members: Documentary evidence along with an attested copy of the
PAN for Members who are exempted from deduction of tax under Section 194 of the Act, and
categories covered under Section 196 of the Act.
(e) REIT/ InvIT:
		 As per the recent Union Budget, 2021, it is proposed that no TDS is applicable on Real Estate
Investment Trust and Infrastructure Investment Trust.
Further, in case of Members who have provided a valid certificate issued under Section 197 of the Act
for lower/ NIL rate of deduction or an exemption certificate issued by income tax authority, the rates
mentioned in such certificate shall be considered for deduction of tax at source.
Note: Recording of the Valid Permanent Account Number (PAN) for the registered Folio/DP
id-Client Id is mandatory. In absence of PAN/ Valid PAN, tax will be deducted at a higher rate of 20%,
as per Section 206AA of the Act.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

41

Non-Resident Members
WHT is applicable as per the provisions of income tax as per section mentioned against the category of the members
Category of member

Relevant TDS Section

Rates applicable

Non-resident individual

115A read with 195

28.50%

Foreign LLP

23.30%

Foreign Company

21.84%

Overseas Trust

28.50%

Non-resident Members can avail the benefit of Double Tax Avoidance Treaty between India and their country of residence on submission of the
documents mentioned below: Self-attested copy of the Permanent Account Number (PAN Card) allotted by the Indian Income Tax authorities.
Self-attested copy of Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) (of FY 2021-22 or calendar year 2021) obtained from the tax authorities of the country of which
the Member is resident. Self-declaration in Form 10F if all the details required in this form are not mentioned in the TRC.
Self-declaration by the non-resident Member of having no Permanent Establishment in India in accordance with the applicable Tax Treaty (of FY 202122 or calendar year 2021) along with Self-declaration of Beneficial ownership (of FY 2021-22 or calendar year 2022) by the non-resident Member.
Any other documents prescribed under the Income-tax Act, 1961 for lower or NIL withholding of tax, if applicable.
Kindly note that the Company is not obligated to apply beneficial tax treaty rates at the time of tax deduction / withholding on dividend amounts.
Application of beneficial rate of tax treaty for the purpose of withholding taxes shall depend upon completeness and satisfactory review by the
Company of the documents submitted by the non-resident Member.
In case of Foreign Institutional Investors (FII), taxes shall be withheld at 20% plus applicable surcharge and cess in accordance with provisions of
Section 196D of the Act. In case of Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI), taxes shall be withheld at the respective rates as per tax treaties.
Download Forms Click Here to download Form 10F
Click Here to download Self Declaration
Members having multiple accounts under different Status/Category
Members holding shares under multiple accounts under different status/category and single PAN, may note that higher of the tax as applicable to the
status in which shares held under a PAN will be considered on their entire holding in different accounts.
NIL TDS for the following category of members
The Government, RBI, Corporation established by Central Act, / Securitization trust/ Insurance companies as per the provisions of Income tax u/s
194, 196 and 197A(1F).
Notes :
In view of the prevailing pandemic situation, only scanned copies of the aforementioned documents will be accepted by the Company. The documents
(duly completed and signed) are required to be submitted to Kfin Technologies Private Limited, Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the Company
not later than May 20, 2021 in order to enable the Company to determine and deduct TDS/withholding tax at appropriate rate. Communication on tax
determination/deduction shall not be entertained post May 20, 2021.
Kindly note that the afore mentioned documents should be uploaded with KFin Technologies Private Limited, the Registrar and Transfer Agent
(“KFintech”) at https://ris.kfintech.com/form15 or emailed to einward.ris@kfintech.com. No communication on the tax determination/deduction shall
be entertained after May 20, 2021.
For all self-attested documents, Members must mention on the document “certified true copy of the original”. For all documents being uploaded by
the Member, the Member undertakes to send the original document(s) on the request by the Company.
In case, the dividend income is assessable to tax in the hands of a person other than the registered Member as on the Book Closure Date, the
registered Member is required to furnish a declaration containing the name, address, PAN of the person to whom TDS credit is to be given and reasons
for giving credit to such person.
It may be further noted that in case the tax on dividend is deducted at a higher rate in absence of receipt of the aforementioned details/documents,
there would still be an option available with the Member to file the return of income and claim an appropriate refund, if eligible. No claim shall lie against
the Company for such taxes deducted.
In the event of any income tax demand (including interest, penalty, etc.) arising from any misrepresentation, inaccuracy or omission of information
provided/to be provided by the Member(s), such Member(s) will be responsible to indemnify the Company and, also, provide the Company with all
information/documents and co-operation in any appellate proceedings.
All the above referred tax rates will be enhanced by surcharge and cess, wherever applicable.
The Company will send out the email with a soft copy of the TDS certificate at the Members‘ registered Email ID in due course, post payment
of the Dividend. Members will also be able to see the credit of TDS in Form 26AS, which can be downloaded from their e-filing account at
https://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in
Above communication on TDS sets out the provisions of law in a summary manner only and does not purport to be a complete analysis or listing of all
potential tax consequences. This communication shall not be treated as an advice from the Company or its affiliates or its Registrar & Transfer Agent.
Members should obtain the tax advice related to their tax matters from a tax professional.
All communications/queries in this respect should be addressed and sent to Share Transfer Agent at
Ms. Shobha Anand
Deputy General Manager
KFin Technologies Private Limited,
Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District Nanakramguda Serilingampally, Mandal, Hyderabad - 500032.
Contact details:
Email ID: einward.ris@kfintech.com;
Toll Free number: 1800 3454 001

42

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

26. Other Instructions:
i.

ii.

iii.

The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion
to their shares of the paid-up equity share capital of
the Company as on the cut-off date i.e. Wednesday
19, 2021.
The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. S Kannan,
(Membership No. FCS 6261/CP No. PCS 13016),
Practicing Company Secretary and in his absence
Mr. B L Vinay, Practicing Company Secretary,
Bengaluru, (Membership No. A26638 and CP
No. PCS 10760), Bengaluru as the Scrutinizer to
scrutinize the voting process in a fair and transparent
manner.
The scrutinizer shall immediately after the conclusion
of voting at the general meeting, count the votes
cast at the meeting and votes cast through remote
e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses
who are not in the employment of the Company and
within a period not exceeding 48 hours from the

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

conclusion of the meeting, submit a consolidated
Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes cast in favor or
against, if any, to the Chairman or person authorized
by the Chairman in writing for counter signature.
iv.

The Results shall be declared either by the Chairman
or the person authorized by the Chairman in writing
and the resolutions will be deemed to have been
passed on the AGM date subject to receipt of the
requisite number of votes in favor thereof.

v.

Promptly after declaration of results, the same shall
be placed along with the Scrutinizer’s Report on
the Company’s website at https://www.hitachiabbpowergrids.com/in/en and on the NSDL’s website at
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com and communicated to
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India
Limited, where the shares of the Company are listed
for placing the same in their website.

vi. A person who is not a member as on the cut-off date,
should treat this Notice for information purpose only.

Information at a glance
Particulars

Information

Time and date of AGM

Thursday, May 27, 2021 at 11:00 am

Mode

Video conference and other audio-visual means

Participation through video conferencing Refer instructions above
Helpline number for VC participation

1800 1020 990 / 1800 224 430

Webcast

https://www.evoting.nsdl.com

Cut-off date for e-voting

Wednesday, May 19, 2021

E-voting start time and date

Saturday, May 22, 2021 at 9:00 am (IST)

E-voting end time and date

Wednesday, May 26, 2021 at 5:00 pm (IST)

E-voting facility during the AGM

Members who have not exercised voting through remote e-voting can exercise voting during and
immediately after the conclusion of AGM

E-voting website of NSDL

https://www.evoting.nsdl.com

Name, address and contact details of
Registrar and Transfer Agent

Shobha Anand
Deputy General Manager
KFin Technologies Private Limited, (Unit: ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District, Nanakramguda Serilingampally, Mandal, Hyderabad - 500032.
Contact details:
e-mail ID: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Contact number: toll free no. 1800 345 4001

Name and contact details of e-voting
and VC/OAVM service provider

National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL)
Toll free number: 1800 1020 990 / 1800 224 430
e-mail ID: evoting@nsdl.co.in

By Order of the Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Bengaluru
February 26, 2021
Registered Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560 092.
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 2204 1800

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Explanatory statement
Annexed to the Notice convening the 2nd Annual
General Meeting of the Company to be held on Thursday,
May 27, 2021
Item no(s): 3 and 4
Pursuant to the recommendations of the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors at their
meeting held on February 25, 2021 appointed:
a)

Mr. Achim Michael Braun as Additional Director
(Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director) of the
Company w.e.f February 25, 2021 and also designated
as Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Company.

b)

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka as Additional Director NonExecutive and Non-Independent Director) of the
Company w.e.f February 25, 2021.

Consequent to transfer of 31,786,256 Equity shares from
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd (Promoter) to ABB Ltd (Promoter)
and from ABB Ltd to Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd (Promoter)
on February 05, 2021, Mr. Achim Michael Braun and
Mr. Ismo Antero Haka represent Hitachi ABB Power Grids
Ltd, Promoter of the Company. In accordance with Section
161 of the Act, read with Article 94 of the Company’s Articles
of Association, the aforesaid Directors hold office up to the
date of this Annual General Meeting and in respect of their
appointment the respective Resolutions at Item No. 3 to 4 of
the Notice have been proposed. In terms of Section 160 of
the said Act, a notice in writing has been received from
Members of the Company signifying their intention to
propose the aforesaid Directors as candidates for the office
of Director, of the Company.
Additional information including brief profile in respect of
Mr. Achim Michael Braun and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka
pursuant to the Regulation 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued
by Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) is
provided as part to this notice. In the opinion of the Board of
Directors, Mr. Achim Michael Braun and Mr. Ismo Antero
Haka, proposed to be appointed, fulfils the conditions
specified in the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulations 17 A
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015. Both of them are liable to retire
by rotation.
The Board of Directors recommend the Resolution for
approval of Members as Ordinary Resolution as set out at
item No. 3 & 4 of the accompanying Notice.
Mr. Achim Michael Braun and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka are
interested in the Ordinary Resolutions relating to their
respective appointment. None of the other Directors and
Key Managerial Personnel of the Company, or their relatives,
is interested in the Ordinary Resolutions as set out in item
No(s) 3 and 4 to the notice. The Board recommends the

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

43

Ordinary Resolutions as set out in item No(s) 3 and 4 to the
notice for your approval.
Item no 5:
The Board of Directors of the Company, on the
recommendation of the Audit Committee, has approved the
appointment of M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost
Accountant (Registration No: 100392) as Cost Auditor to
conduct the audit of the cost records of the Company for the
for the Financial period ending March 31, 2022, (15 months
from January 01, 2021 to March 31, 2022). In accordance
with the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act,
2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,
2014 the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor requires
to be approved by the Members of the Company for the
financial period ending March 31, 2022, (15 months from
January 01, 2021 to March 31, 2022).
Accordingly, approval of the Members is sought as
referred to in the Resolution at Item 5 of the Notice for the
payment of the remuneration amounting to ` 1,850,000/(Rupees Eighteen Lakhs and Fifty Thousand only) for Cost
Audit plus applicable taxes and out of pocket expenses
payable to the Cost Auditor for the financial period ending
March 31, 2022, (15 months from January 01, 2021 to March
31, 2022).
The Board of Directors recommend the Resolution for
approval of Members as Ordinary Resolution as set out at
item No. 5 of the accompanying Notice.
None of the Directors and/or Key Managerial Personnel of
the Company and / or their respective relatives is concerned
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Ordinary
Resolution set out at Item No. 5 of the Notice.
Item no 6:
The Members, vide their resolution dated November
26, 2019 had accorded approval for borrowing upto
` 5,000 Crore (Rupees Five Thousand Crore only) from its
Bankers/Financial Institutions or from any one for operations
of the Company.
Given the likely increase in business opportunities, it is
proposed to increase this limit from ` 5,000 crores to
` 6,000 crores (which will comprise ` 1,000 crore towards
fund based and ` 5,000 crores towards non fund based
borrowing). This additional borrowing of ` 1,000 crores is
required for meeting the business requirements in future.
Section 180 of the Companies Act, 2013 provides that
consent of the members of the Company is required to be
secured for borrowing in excess of its paid-up Share
Capital, free reserves and securities premium (apart from
temporary loans obtained from the Company’s bankers
in the ordinary course of business). Since the proposed
borrowing exceeds the paid-up Share Capital, free reserves
and securities premium of the Company, approval of the
members of the Company is sought by way of a special
resolution.

44

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

The Board commends the Special Resolution set out at Item
No. 6 of the Notice for approval by the Members.

By Order of the Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

None of the Directors/Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company/their relatives are, in any way, concerned
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the proposed
resolution, set out at Item No. 6 of the Notice.

Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Bengaluru
February 26, 2021

Annexure 1 to AGM Notice
DETAILS OF THE DIRECTOR SEEKING APPOINTMENT AT THE 2ND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING [PURSUANT TO REGULATION
36(3) OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS 2015 AND SECRETARIAL
STANDARD ON GENERAL MEETINGS (SS-2) ISSUED BY INSTITUTE OF COMPANY SECRETARIES OF INDIA (ICSI)]
Name of the Director

MR. ACHIM MICHAEL BRAUN

MR. ISMO ANTERO HAKA

DIN

08596097

08598862

Date of Birth & Age

February 20, 1969
52 yrs.

May 16, 1963
57 yrs.

Nationality

Deutsch

Finnish

Date of Appointment on the Board

February 25, 2021

February 25, 2021

Qualifications

Master degree in Business Administration from the
University of Regensburg, Germany.

M.Sc. in Economics from the Hanken School of
Economics, Finland.

Expertise in specific functional area

Power grid business and refer information
mentioned above and brief profile section

Power grid business and refer information mentioned
above and brief profile section

Shareholding in the Company

NIL

NIL

List of the directorships held in other
companies *

NIL

NIL

Number of Board Meetings attended
during the financial year 2020

NA since appointed wef February 25, 2021

NA since appointed wef February 25, 2021

Chairman/ Member in the Committees of
the Boards of other companies in which
he is Director *

NIL

NIL

Relationships with other Directors,
Manager and other Key Managerial
Personnel of the Company

He is not related to any other Director and / or Key
Managerial Personnel of the Company

He is not related to any other Director and / or Key
Managerial Personnel of the Company

Remuneration details (Including Sitting
Fees & Commission)

Not drawing any remuneration or commission or
sitting fees in the capacity of Director from
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited.

Not drawing any remuneration or commission or
sitting fees in the capacity of Director from
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited.

Details of remuneration sought to be paid

NIL

NIL

Occupation

Service

Service

Brief Profile

Mr. Achim Michael Braun is the Chairman and
Non- Executive Director of the Company.

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka is the Non -Executive and
Non-Independent Director of the Company.

Achim Braun is the Head of Human Resources at
Hitachi ABB Power Grids. He joined Hitachi ABB
Power Grids’ predecessor in 2018, serving as
Senior Vice President for Human Resources. Prior
to this, Achim worked in different leadership roles
at Continental, Schaeffler and as Vice President
for Human Resources Europe & Africa at the Lear
Corporation.

Ismo Haka is the CFO of Hitachi ABB Power Grids.
Before this, he held numerous senior financial positions
in ABB: CFO of ABB Power Grids (2016-2020); CFO
Power Products Division (2012-2016) which was then
merged into the Power Grids Division; North America
Regional and USA Country CFO (2008-2012) and
Process Automation Division CFO (2004 to 2008).

He is a Non-executive Non-independent Director
of the Company. He is required to comply with the
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, and
SEBI Regulations and other applicable laws.

He is a Non-executive Non-independent Director of the
Company. He is required to comply with the applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, and SEBI Regulations
and other applicable laws.

Key terms and conditions of
appointment

* Committee membership includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of Public Limited Company (whether
Listed or not) excluding that of ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited. Directorship in listed entities are only considered.
Directorships in foreign companies, membership in governing councils, chambers and other bodies, etc has not been provided.

By Order of the Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Bengaluru
February 26, 2021

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

45

Dear Shareholders,
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has taken a “Green
Initiative in Corporate Governance” by allowing paperless
compliances by Companies through electronic mode. In
accordance with the circular no. 17/2011 dated 21.04.2011
and circular no. 18/2011 dated 29.04.2011 issued by the
Ministry, Companies can now send various notices and
documents, including Annual Report, to its shareholders
through electronic mode to the registered e-mail addresses
of shareholders.
It is a welcome move for the society at large, as this will
reduce paper consumption to a great extent and allow
shareholders to contribute towards a Greener Environment.
Further it will ensure instant and definite receipt of the
reports by you.
As we propose to send future Communications, in electronic
mode, we request you to please fill up the form given
herewith for registering your e-mail ID and send the same to
the following address:
KFin Technologies Private Limited
(Unit: ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli,
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032.
Email id: einward.ris@kfintech.com

If the shares are held in electronic mode, please get your
e-mail registered with your DP immediately.
Please note that as a member of the Company you will be
entitled to receive all such communication in Physical Form,
upon request.
Thanking you,
Yours faithfully,
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Bengaluru
February 26, 2021

46

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

E-Communication Registration Form
Folio No./DP Id and Client ID:
Name of 1st Registered Holder:
Name of Joint Holder(s):
Registered Address:

E-mail address (to be Registered):
I/we Shareholder(s) of ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited agree to receive communication from the Company
in electronic mode. Please register my above e-mail ID for your records for sending communication through e-mail.
Date:
(1st holder only)

Signature:

Note:
Shareholder(s) are requested to keep the Company informed as and when there is any change in the e-mail address.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

47

Boards’ Report
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting their second annual report and audited accounts for the financial year ended
December 31, 2020.

1. Financial results:

(Amount in ` Crores)

Particulars

01.01.2020 to 31.12.2020

19.2.2019 to 31.12.2019

Profit before tax and exceptional items

171.78

261.44

Profit before tax and after exceptional items

136.28

220.65

- Current tax

60.12

62.20

- Deferred tax

(23.64)

(6.94)

Profit after tax (1)

99.80

165.39

Other comprehensive income/ (loss) (net of tax) (2)

(6.04)

0.50

Total (1+2)

93.76

165.89

Tax expense:

-

149.93

Balance brought forward from previous year

315.82

-

Transition adjustment due to adoption of Ind AS 116 “Leases”

(1.06)

-

Amount available for appropriation

408.52

315.82

Equity dividend paid

-

-

Tax on equity dividend paid

-

-

Debenture redemption reserve

-

-

General reserve

-

-

408.52

315.82

Balance of retained earnings transferred pursuant to the scheme of arrangement

Appropriations:

Balance carried forward

2. Dividend:
Your Directors recommend payment of a maiden
dividend at the rate of ` 2/- (Rupees two only) per equity
share (100 percent) for the year ended December 31,
2020 on 42,381,675 equity shares of ` 2/- each
fully paid.

` 165.4 crore). The earnings per share for the financial
year ended December 31, 2020 stood at ` 23.55
(December 31, 2019 was ` 44.69).
For detailed analysis of the performance, including
industry overview, changes, and outlook, please refer
to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report
provided in Annexure – A, forming part of this Report.

3. Performance review:
During the financial year ended December 2020, orders
touched ` 3,217.7 crore as against ` 2,641.9 crore as on
December 31, 2019. The orders witnessed a healthy
growth reflecting the technology push and continued
traction in transformers and system integration. The
order backlog at the end of the year stood at ` 4,954.8
crore (December 31, 2019 was ` 5,100.7 crore) which
continued to provide visibility to the future revenue
streams. The revenue from operations for your Company
for the financial year ended December 31, 2020 stood at
` 3,438.9 crore (December 31, 2019 was ` 3,236.5
crore), reflecting stability of operations in an uncertain
market situation. Profit before tax was ` 136.3 crore
(December 31, 2019 was ` 220.7 crore) mainly impacted
due to unprecedented COVID-19. Accordingly, net profit
after tax was ` 99.8 crore (December 31, 2019 was

There has been no change in the nature of business
during the financial year under review.

4. COVID-19:
Impact and action plan
COVID-19 came as an unprecedented global crisis.
It disrupted life, changing the way one lives, works and
interact with each other. In India, the first case was
reported on January 30, 2020 while the disease had
already claimed many lives in neighboring China and
was rapidly spreading across the globe. To curtail the
spread of the infection within its border, India had
imposed a strict nationwide lockdown and promulgated
health and safety regulations, shutting factories,
banning all kinds of travel, mandating social distancing
and quarantines.

48

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

In this period of uncertainty, your Company’s prime
focus was to collaborate and manage the crisis for its
employees, customers, partners and the community, and
build its spirit and strength. Your Company adopted a
three-pronged approach:
•
•
•

Protecting our people,
Preserving business continuity, and
Preparing for the new norm

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

focusing on collections and liquidity. Your Company was
able to preserve cash by proactively identifying and
postponing non-essential spends and optimizing external
resources and personnel expenses.
All through, your Company’s ambition was to prepare
for the new norm in the best possible manner and build
back better.
Prepare for the new norm

Protecting our people
Your Company’s priority was to keep its employees,
customers and partners safe.
In accordance with the Ministry of Home Affairs (“MHA”)
national lockdown requirements from March 25, 2019,
operations across plants, project sites and offices were
closed. Besides energizing the network of your Company
location specific crisis teams, an exclusive helpline for
employees was started to support its employees’ and
their families’ emotional welfare. Medical assistance was
arranged at employees’ fingertips through a third party
primary and preventive care service provider even as
they worked from home.
Voluntary COVID-19 testing, medical reviews and
checks were organized at various locations. As operations
were permitted to resume by the various governing
authorities, your Company capped the number of
employees working at a particular time at all plants and
offices; made arrangements for sanitized transportation
to factories and demarcated work and common areas to
ensure strict adherence to social distancing. At project
sites, processes were put in place to ensure secure and
safe lodging facilities for migrant workforce.
Employees were provided protective gear like masks,
face shields, gloves and sanitizers; mandated to take all
safety precautions and maintain absolute transparency
in health declarations. All employees were encouraged
to download the Aarogya Setu app launched by the
Government of India. This is followed until date.
In addition to all this, most employees voluntarily donated
one-day salary to the PM CARES Fund. This donation
was matched by your Company, totaling ` 1.24 crore, as
a mark of solidarity in this time of crisis.
Preserve business continuity
Your Company maintained business continuity by
amplifying customer engagement through technology
and leveraging digital solutions for product service and
training, and even commissioning of certain projects.
Your Company implemented cost control measures
to conserve cash and recovered lost production
days by strategically planning shifts and rotations to
enable maximum capacity utilization of shop floors while
ensuring social distancing, implementing a six-day
workweek to compensate for productivity loss; and

Backed by your Company’s resilience and zest for
innovation, your Company quickly adapted to the new
norm. Besides switching to Remote Factory Acceptance
Tests (RFAT) where possible, your Company conducted
numerous virtual technical webinars, attended by
over thousands of participants from utilities, industries,
transport and infrastructure segment across countries,
and launched its flagship customer event Energy and
Digital World. Your Company continued engagement
with industry leaders through virtual industry events, and
specific one-on-one CEO connects that helped it keep a
finger on the pulse across various verticals.
Your Company also remained a trusted partner for
training top talent and had such requests from various
customers. Your Company conducted workshops for
hundreds of customers from about two dozen utilities,
devoted efforts toward developing future talent for its
high-growth segments and ran more than 60 separate
training programs for over thousand people, totaling
~3,500 man-days in training.
While the blow of the pandemic couldn’t be completely
blunted, your Company was able to see some semblance
of normalcy by the third quarter. The closure of factories
and sites - your Company and its customers’ - for half the
second quarter reflected in your Company’s business
performance in the April-June period. Further details on
this have been shared in subsequent sections.
By December 2020, the count of fresh COVID-19 cases
had come down and dry run of vaccination had started
in some states. With the economy gradually opening
up, the Reserve Bank of India revised its forecast of
economic growth for the current fiscal year (2020-21) to
(-) 7.5 percent compared to its earlier forecast of
(-) 9.5 percent. While your Company has made every
effort to swiftly adapt to the new norm, the closures will
likely have an impact on its performance which can only
be gauged in the quarter ending June 30, 2020.

5. Scheme of Arrangement:
A Scheme of Arrangement (“Scheme”) was entered into
between (i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”/“Transferor”)
and (ii) your Company (“Company”/“Transferee”) and
their respective shareholders and creditors, pursuant to
the provisions of Section 230 to 232 and other applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, (“Act”) which
provided for inter alia the Demerger of the Power Grids

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Business of INABB (“Demerged Undertaking”) and the
consequent issuance of equity shares by your Company
to the shareholders of INABB as per the share
entitlement ratio.
The Scheme was approved by your Board of Directors
pursuant to its resolution dated March 5, 2019 and the
Board of Directors of INABB pursuant to its resolution
dated March 5, 2019. Pursuant to an order dated June
27, 2019, passed by the National Company Law Tribunal,
Bengaluru Bench, (“NCLT”), meetings of the equity
shareholders and the creditors of INABB were convened.
The equity shareholders and the creditors of INABB
approved the Scheme at court convened meetings,
each held on August 9, 2019. The NCLT approved the
Scheme on November 27, 2019. The Appointed Date of
the Scheme was April 1, 2019 and the Effective Date was
December 1, 2019.

view in conformity with the accounting principles
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs
of the Company as at December 31, 2020, its profit
including other comprehensive income, its cash
flows and the changes in equity for the year ended
on that date.
b.

6. Board of Directors’ response to observations,
qualifications and adverse remarks in Auditor’s
Report
The Statutory Auditors (“Auditors”) have qualified their
opinion in relation to the matters specified in Notes 38
of the Financial Statements for the year ended December
31, 2020 (“Statements”).
Qualified Opinion:
We have audited the accompanying Ind AS financial
statements of ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited (“the Company”), which comprise the
Balance sheet as at December 31 2020, the
Statement of Profit and Loss, including the
statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the
Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes
in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the
Ind AS financial statements, including a summary
of significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information
and according to the explanations given to us,
except for the possible effects of the matters
described in the ‘Basis for Qualified Opinion’
section of our report, the aforesaid Ind AS financial
statements give the information required by the
Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the Act”) in
the manner so required and give a true and fair

Basis for Qualified Opinion:
We draw attention to Note 38 (a) to the
accompanying Ind AS financial statements
regarding the Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’)
for demerger of the power grid business of ABB
India Limited with the Company with an appointed
date of April 01, 2019 and approved by the
National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’) vide
its order dated November 27, 2019. As per the
applicable accounting standard Ind AS 103, since
this demerger was a common control business
combination, the financial information necessitated
restatement by the transferee at carrying amounts
not from the appointed date but from the beginning
of the preceding period in the financial statements
which happens to be the date of incorporation
i.e. February 19, 2019. Accordingly, the Company
was required as per Ind AS 103 to give effect
to the business combination from February 19,
2019 (date of its incorporation). However, the
Company had recognized the impact of the
business combination only from April 01, 2019
(i.e. the appointed date specified in the scheme)
and has not restated and disclosed financial results
for the period from February 19, 2019 to March 31,
2019, in the comparative period ended December
31, 2019. However, there is no impact of the same
on the Company’s Ind AS financial statements of
the year ended December 31, 2020. Our opinion on
the current year’s statement is qualified because
of the possible effect of this matter on the
comparability of the current period’s figures and
the corresponding figures.

The Scheme provided for the transfer by way of a
demerger of the Demerged Undertaking and the
consequent issue of equity shares by your Company to
the shareholders of INABB in accordance with the
share entitlement ratio, and various other matters
consequential or integrally connected therewith,
including the re-organisation of the share capital of
the Transferee, pursuant to Sections 230 to 232
of the Act, the SEBI circulars and in compliance
with the Income Tax Act, 1961

a.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

This matter was also qualified in the comparative
period by the preceding auditor.
c.

Board’s response to qualification in Auditor’s
Report:
The Statutory Auditors (“Auditors”) have qualified
their opinion in relation to the matters specified
in Notes 38 of the Financial Statements for
the financial year ended December 31, 2020
(“Statements”). The Board’s response to the
qualifications are as follows.
As per the applicable accounting standard Ind AS
103 (‘standard’), since this demerger is a
common control business combination, the
financial information necessitates restatement by
the Company at carrying amounts not from the
appointed date but from the beginning of the

49

50

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

preceding period in the financial statements which
happens to be the date of incorporation i.e. February
19, 2019. Consequentially, the Company is required
to give effect to the business combination from
February 19, 2019 (date of its incorporation). However,
the Company has recognised the impact of the
business combination only from April 1, 2019
(i.e. the appointed date specified in the scheme of
arrangement). The Company is of the view that due
to incoherence between the appointed date i.e., April
1, 2019 and date of incorporation i.e. February 19,
2019 and requirements of Ind AS 103 such a one-off
situation has arisen. Further, in addition to what has
been stated in Note 38 (a) of the Statements, we wish
to state that in anticipation of reorganisation of ABB
India Limited’s business by way of said Scheme,
the Company was incorporated. Such date of
incorporation is not in control of the Company. The
Registrar of Companies issued the certificate of
incorporation on February 19, 2019. The management
confirms that, during the period between February
19, 2019 and March 31, 2019, no active business was
undertaken other than the initial paid up share capital.
In light of the above, there is no impact on the financial
statements of the Company as at December 31, 2020
as affirmed by the Auditors. Thus, the statement of
profit and loss (including other comprehensive
income), statement of changes in equity and
statement of cash flows for the period do not
contain the impact of the transactions of the
demerged undertaking from February 19, 2019 to
March 31, 2019.

7.

Change in the financial year:
Your Company was incorporated on February 19,
2019 with first financial year commencing on February
19, 2019 and ending on March 31, 2020. Your Company
subsequently made an application to the Regional
Director, South East Region, Ministry of Corporate
Affairs, Hyderabad on November 5, 2019 to change
your Company’s first financial year from February 19,
2019 to December 31, 2019. Pursuant to an order
bearing no. F.No:10/19/Karnataka/RD (SER)/2(41) of
2013/2019/6328 dated December 12, 2019, passed by
the Regional Director, South East Region, Ministry of
Corporate Affairs, Hyderabad your Company’s financial
year commenced on January 1 and ended on December
31 of a given year.
Subsequent to the transfer of shares held by promoters
from ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd., to ABB Ltd and then
to Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd., given that the financial
year of Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd., is April – March,
the Board of Directors at their meeting held on February
26, 2021 has approved the change in financial year of
your Company to April-March and that the current
financial year will be from January 01, 2021 to March 31,
2022 (15 months) and thereafter, all financial years
shall commence on April 01 and end on March 31
every year.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

8. Material changes and commitments, if any,
affecting the financial position of the Company,
having occurred since the end of the year and
till the date of this report and disclosures:
Other than those mentioned in this Report, there have
been no material changes and commitments, which
affect the financial position of your Company which have
occurred between the end of the financial year to which
the financial statements relate and the date of this Report.

9. Annual Return:
As per provisions of Section 92 (3) of the Act read
with Rule 12 of the Companies (Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014 as amended from time to
time, the copy of the Annual Return in the Form MGT-7 is
hosted on website of your Company at:
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investorrelations/financial-results--reports-and-presentations

10. Board Meetings held during the period:
During the financial year under review, five (5) meetings
of the Board of Directors were held. The details of board
meeting dates are furnished in Corporate governance
report forming part of this Annual report.

11. Independent Directors and compliance on
criteria of independence by the Independent
Directors:
The following Independent Directors were appointed
during FY 2019 and the Board is of the view that
they have adequate expertise, experience and
proficiency.
Mr. Mukesh Butani holds a bachelor’s degree in
commerce from Mumbai University. He is a certified
chartered accountant from the Indian Institute of
Chartered Accountants. He founded BMR Legal
Advocates, a tax law firm in India. He has expertise in
taxation laws.
Ms. Akila Krishnakumar is an alumnus of Birla Institute
of Technology and Sciences. She was previously the
president – global technology and country head of
Sun Gard, which was acquired by Fidelity National
Information Services, Inc. She has expertise in diverse
business profiles.
Ms. Nishi Vasudeva holds a bachelor’s degree in
economics from Delhi University and is an alumnus of
Indian Institute of Management, Kolkata. She was the
Chairperson and Managing Director of Hindustan
Petroleum Corporation Limited till March 2016. She has
expertise in diverse business profiles.
All Independent Directors of your Company have given
declarations to your Company under Section 149 (7) of

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

the Act that they meet the criteria of independence
as provided in Sub-Section 6 of Section 149 of the
Act and also under the SEBI (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing
Regulations). All Independent Directors of your Company
have also given declarations to your Company under Rule
6 of Companies (Appointment and Qualification of
Directors) Rules 2014. In the opinion of the Board, they
fulfil the conditions of independence as specified in the
Act and the Listing Regulations and are independent of
management. The Independent Directors have affirmed
compliance with the Code of Conduct, as on December
31, 2020. The Independent Directors also affirmed
compliance under Sec 150 with regard to Independent
Directors databank, enrollment and examination in FY
2021. During the financial year a separate meeting of the
Independent Directors was held on December 14, 2020.

12. Management Discussion and Analysis Report
(MDAR):
The Management Discussion and Analysis Report
(MDAR) is annexed as Annexure A to this report.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

15. Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments
under Section 186 of the Act:
During the financial year under review, your Company has
not granted any Loan, Guarantees or made investments
within the meaning of Section 186 of the Act.

16. Amount, if any, proposed to be transferred to
Reserves:
For the financial year under review, your Company has
proposed not to transfer any amount to the General
Reserves.

17. Conservation of energy, technology absorption,
foreign exchange earnings and outgo:
The particulars as prescribed under Section 134 of the Act
read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules,
2014, relating to Conservation of Energy, Technology
Absorption, Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo are
given in Annexure – C, forming part of this report.

18. Risk Management:
13. Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the
Company:
The Board of Directors have re-constituted the Nomination
and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) at their meeting
held on February 26, 2021. The Remuneration Policy of
your Company for appointment and remuneration of the
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior
Management of the Company along with other related
matters have been provided in the Corporate Governance
Report. The nomination and remuneration policy is
available on the website of the Company: https://www.
hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/
board-of-directors.
As and when need arises to appoint Director, the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of
the Company will determine the criteria based on
the specific requirements. NRC, while recommending
candidature to the Board, takes into consideration the
qualification, attributes, experience and independence of
the candidate. Director(s) appointment and remuneration
will be as per NRC Policy of the Company.
A Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration pursuant
to Section 197 of the Act read with Rule 5(1) of
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is provided in
Annexure – B, forming part of this report.

14. Dividend distribution policy:
As required under Regulation 43A of the Listing Regulations,
your Company has a policy on dividend distribution. This
policy can be accessed on your Company’s website at
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investorrelations/corporate-governance-policies

Your Company has constituted a Risk Management
committee on December 24, 2019 and adopted a Risk
Management Policy as required under Companies Act
2013 and Listing Regulations. The Risk Management
committee was re-constituted by the Board of Directors
at their meeting held on February 26, 2021. The
Committee oversees the Risk Management process
including risk identification, impact assessment, effective
implementation of the mitigation plans and risk reporting.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board of
Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with
regard to enterprise risk management. The details and
the process of Risk Management are provided as part of
Management’s Discussion and Analysis which forms part
of this Report.

19. Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives:
The Board of Directors had constituted a Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) Committee as required under the
Act for implementing various CSR activities and adopted
revised CSR Policy at its meeting held on April 30, 2020
and then in the meeting held on November 10, 2020.
Composition of the Committee and other details are
provided in Corporate Governance Report which forms
part of this Report. Promote gender equality and
empowering of women in engineering workforce, endorse
education, employability & healthcare, social impact
projects, support national disaster management and other
government initiatives and aid in sustainable development
goals are the focal area under the CSR Policy. Your
Company has implemented various CSR projects directly
and / or through implementing partners and the projects
undertaken by your Company are in accordance with
Schedule VII of the Act. During the financial year under
review, your Company had partially spent the required

51

52

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

amount on CSR activities and could not spend the
statutorily required amount due to COVID-19 pandemic
and balance unspent amount will be spent in current year
FY 21. However, the unspent amount has been transferred
to a dedicated bank account. Detailed report on CSR
activities as required under the Companies (Corporate
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 is provided in
Annexure – D, forming part of this Report. The CSR
Committee was reconstituted by the Board of Directors at
their meeting held on February 26, 2021.

20. Annual evaluation of Board, its Committees and
Individual Directors:
The Board of Directors has carried out an annual
evaluation of its performance, its Committees and
Directors for FY 2020 in FY 2021 pursuant to the
requirements of the Act and the Listing Regulations.
Further, the Independent Directors, at their exclusive
meeting held in FY 2021, reviewed the performance of
the Board, its Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and
other items as stipulated under the Listing Regulations.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

All contracts or arrangements were entered into only
with prior approval of the Audit Committee, except
transactions which qualified as omnibus transactions
as permitted under law.

23. Reporting of frauds:
There was no instance of fraud during the financial year
under review, which required the Statutory Auditors to
report to the Audit Committee and/or Board under
Section 143(12) of the Act and Rules framed thereunder.

24. Transfer to Investor Education and Protection
Fund:
As your Company was incorporated on February 19,
2019, and that no dividend was recommended/declared
during the financial year ended December 31, 2019 and
as on financial year ended December 31, 2020 there is
no unclaimed dividend during the financial year under
review, no dividend amount was transferred as required
under Section 124 of the Act, to the Investor Education
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by the
Central Government.

21. Audit Committee:
The details pertaining to composition of the Audit
Committee and terms of reference are included in the
Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of this
Report. The Board has accepted all recommendation of
Audit Committee, made during the financial year under
review.

22. Related Party Transactions:
The Board of Directors have adopted a policy on Related
Party Transactions at its meeting held on December 24,
2019. The objective is to ensure proper approval,
disclosure and reporting of transactions as applicable,
between your Company and any of its related parties.
Transactions with related parties, as per requirements of
Indian Accounting Standard have been disclosed in the
accompanying financial statements. Your Company’s
Policy on Related Party Transactions, as adopted by your
Board, can be accessed on your Company’s website.
Link for the same is: https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.
com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governancepolicies
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd was holding 10 percent or
more shares in your Company as on December 31, 2020.
The details of transactions with promoter/promoter group
holding 10 percent or more shares have been disclosed
in the accompanying financial statements.
Related Party Transaction under the provisions of Section
188 of the Act, requiring disclosures to be made in Form No.
AOC-2 pursuant to Section 134 of the Act read with Rule 8
of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is attached as
Annexure – E to this Report.

Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement (entered into
between your Company, ABB India Limited and their
respective Shareholders and Creditors) approved by
NCLT vide its order dated November 27, 2019, your
Company on December 24, 2019, allotted equity shares
to the shareholders of ABB India Limited. Out of
42,381,675 Equity shares allotted, 107,421 Equity
Shares were directly allotted to the IEPF account as
a consequence of issue of Equity Shares by your
Company to the shareholders of ABB India Limited in
accordance with the Share Entitlement Ratio.
As explained above, as no dividend was declared
since incorporation of your Company nor your Company
was required to transfer any dividend amount to IEPF,
other details like amount of unclaimed/unpaid dividend
and the corresponding shares were not applicable for the
financial year under review. Also, redemption amount of
preference shares, amount of matured deposits, for
companies other than banking companies, along with
interest accrued thereon, amount of matured debentures
along with interest accrued thereon, application money
received for allotment of any securities and due for refund
along with interest accrued, sale proceeds of fractional
shares arising out of issuance of bonus shares, merger
and amalgamation resultant benefits on shares transferred
to the IEPF, year wise amount of unpaid/unclaimed
dividend lying in the unpaid account upto the year and the
corresponding shares, which are liable to be transferred
to the IEPF, and the due dates for such transfer, the amount
of donation, if any, given by the Company to the IEPF, such
other amounts transferred to the IEPF, if any, during the
financial year under review are not applicable.
9,266 Equity Shares arising out of fractional shares were
sold on July 27, 2020 and out of that 73.20 equity shares

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

were pertaining to IEPF and net amount ` 49,932.30/(after deduction of taxes) was deposited into IEPF
account on August 3, 2020.

financial controls are adequate and were operating
effectively; and
f.

•

Web-addresses of the Company where details of
shares transferred to IEPF authority is captured:
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/
investor-relations/iepf

•

Details of Nodal Officer: Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda,
General Counsel and Company Secretary.

25. Particulars
of
employees
including
remuneration of directors and employees:
The information on employee particulars, as required
under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and
5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 as amended
from time to time, are given in Annexure – F, forming part
of this report. In terms of Section 136 of the Act, the
Report and Financial Statements are being sent to the
Members and others entitled thereto, excluding this
Annexure. This Annexure shall be provided to Members
on a specific request made in writing to the Company.
The said information is available for electronic inspection
by the Members of the Company on any working day upto
the date of the 2nd Annual General Meeting.

26. Directors’ Responsibility Statement:
To the best of knowledge and belief and according to the
information and explanations obtained by us, your
Directors make the following statements in terms of
Section 134(3)(c) and 134(5) of the Act, that:
a.

in the preparation of the annual accounts, the
applicable accounting standards have been followed
along with proper explanation relating to material
departures;

b.

they have selected such accounting policies and
applied them consistently and made judgments and
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company at December 31, 2020, and of the profit
and loss of the Company for the year ended on
that date;

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

they have devised proper systems to ensure
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws
and that such systems were adequate and operating
effectively.

27. Disclosure on confirmation with the Secretarial
Standards:
Your Directors confirm that the Secretarial Standards
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India
have been duly complied with.

28. Corporate Governance Report and Certificate:
As required under Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule
V (C) of the Listing Regulations, a report on Corporate
Governance and the certificate as required
under Schedule V (E) of the Listing Regulations from
M/s. V. Sreedharan & Associates, Practicing Company
Secretaries, regarding compliance of conditions of
Corporate Governance are provided in Annexure – G
and Annexure – H respectively, forming part of
this report.

29. Secretarial Audit:
Pursuant to provisions of Section 204 of the Act read
with Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and
amendments thereto, your Company engaged the
services of M/s. BMP & Co. LLP, Company Secretaries,
Bengaluru, to conduct the Secretarial Audit of your
Company for the financial year ended December 31,
2020. The Secretarial Audit Report in Form MR-3
and Secretarial Compliance certificate is provided in
Annexure – I, forming part of this report.

30. Business Responsibility Report:
As required under Regulation 34 of the Listing
Regulations, the Business Responsibility Report forms
part of the Annual Report.

31. Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil Mechanism:

c.

they have taken proper and sufficient care for
the maintenance of adequate accounting records
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and
for preventing and detecting fraud and other
irregularities;

d.

they have prepared the annual accounts on a going
concern basis;

Your Company has adopted a vigil mechanism/whistle
blower policy for Directors, Employees and third
parties to report their concerns about unethical
behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the
Company’s Code of conduct, leak of unpublished price
sensitive information and related matters. The mechanism
provides for adequate safeguards against victimization of
whistle blowers who avail of the mechanism. The whistle
blowers may also access their higher level/supervisors
and/or the Audit Committee.

e.

they have laid down internal financial controls to be
followed by the Company and that such internal

The Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil Mechanism is available
on your Company’s website: https://www.hitachiabb-

53

54

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporategovernance-policies

32. Directors and Key Managerial Personnel:
During the financial year under review, there were no
changes in the constitution of the Board. The Board is
duly constituted with a mix of Executive, Non-Executive
and Independent Directors. The appointment of
Mr. Frank Duggan, Chairman and Non-Executive Director,
Mr. Venu Nuguri, Managing Director, Mr. Mukesh Hari
Butani, Independent Director, Ms. Akila Krishnakumar,
Independent Director, Ms. Nishi Vasudeva, Independent
Director were regularized and appointed by the members
during the financial year under review.
However, subsequent to the transfer of shares held by
promoters from ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd., to ABB Ltd
and then to Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd., the Board of
Directors at their meeting held on February 25, 2021 have
appointed Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN:08596097)
as Additional Director (Non-Executive and NonIndependent) and subsequently as Chairman of the
Board and of your Company and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka
(DIN:08598862) as Additional Director (Non-Executive
and Non-Independent Director) of your Company
representing Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd and Mr. Venu
Nuguri, the current Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer was also nominated representing
Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd and this was taken note of
in the board meeting held on February 25, 2021. Both
Mr. Achim Michael Braun and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka have
been appointed liable to retire by rotation and subject to
approval of the Shareholders in the ensuing Annual
General Meeting. Accordingly, the proposal for
regularisation of their appointment is included in the
Notice of Annual General Meeting for approval of the
Shareholders of the Company. Necessary notice under
Section 160 of the Act has been received from Members
proposing the candidature of the aforesaid Directors of
the Company. At the meeting of the Board of Directors
held on February 26, 2021, Mr. Venu Nuguri, Managing
Director was designated as Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Mukesh Butani, Ms. Akila
Krishnakumar and Ms. Nishi Vasudeva continued as
Non-Executive and Independent Directors during the
financial year under review.
Mr. Frank Duggan and Mr. Sanjeev Sharma resigned as
Directors w.e.f. February 25, 2021 due to the reconstitution
of the Board of Directors. Your Directors place on record
their sincere appreciation of the valuable contribution
made by them.
During the financial year under review as on December
31, 2020, and as on date, Mr. Venu Nuguri, Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Ajay Singh,
Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda,
General Counsel, Company Secretary and Compliance
Officer are the Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Details of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and
Composition of various Committees of the Board are
provided in the Corporate Governance Report forming
part of this report.

33. Deposits:
During the financial year under review, your Company did
not accept any deposit within the meaning of the
provisions of Chapter V – Acceptance of Deposits by
Companies of the Act read with the Companies
(Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014.

34. Share Capital and Debt structure:
There was no change in the share capital during the
financial year under review.
Out of 42,381,675 equity shares allotted on December 24,
2019, your Company allotted 9,266 Equity shares (pursuant
to fractional entitlements of Members of ABB India Limited
as per share entitlement ratio) and the shares were allotted
to APPSIL Fractional Shares Trust 2019 which was
constituted specifically to hold the shares on behalf of the
entitled shareholders of fractional shares in accordance
with the Scheme of Arrangement and the same was sold
in the market in FY 2020. The sale proceeds were
distributed amongst the entitled shareholders.
Pursuant to a resolution passed by the members of your
Company on November 26, 2019 and subject to the
provisions of the Act and the Articles of Association, the
Board is authorised to borrow money, as and when
required, from, including without limitation, any bank
and/or other financial institution and/or foreign lender
and/or anybody corporate/entities/and/or authorities,
either in Rupees or in such other foreign currencies as
may be permitted by law from time to time, as may be
deemed appropriate by the Board for an aggregate
amount not exceeding a sum of ` 5,000 crores for the
Company, notwithstanding that money so borrowed
together with the monies already borrowed by the
Company, if any (apart from temporary loans obtained
from the Company’s bankers in ordinary course of
business) may exceed the aggregate of the paid-up
capital of the Company, its free reserves and securities
premium. It is now proposed to increase this limit to
` 6,000 crores and the same is being proposed to the
members seeking their approval at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting.
Your Company is debt free as on December 31, 2020
and established credit limits with banks. During
the financial year under review, your Company had
borrowed from ABB India Limited and the outstanding
loan was ` 347.62 crores as on December 31, 2019,
which has been paid completely during the financial
year under review.
Your Company did not have any debt instrument, fixed
deposit programme or any scheme or proposal for

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

mobilization of funds. Hence, during the financial year
ended December 31, 2020 it had not obtained any credit
rating for this purpose.
However, CRISIL has assigned its ‘CRISIL AAA/Stable/
CRISIL A1+’ ratings to the bank facilities of the Company
wef January 04, 2021 as follows:
Total Bank Loan Facilities Rated

` 5,000 Crore

Long Term Rating

CRISIL AAA/Stable (Assigned)

Short Term Rating

CRISIL A1+ (Assigned)

There was no issue of preference shares, debenture,
warrants or other convertible securities during the
financial year under review. Your Company has not
issued any shares with differential voting rights, bonus
shares, sweat equity shares, employees stock option
nor bought back any share during the financial year
under review. No shares were held in the trust for the
benefit of employees during the financial year under
review. There has been no revision of financial statement
or report. There was no instance of Statement indicating
deviations, if any, in the use of proceeds from the
objects stated in the offer document or explanatory
statement to the notice for the general meeting.

35. Adapting to the new norm:
To adapt to the new norm, your Company revised
how your Company engaged with its customers and
helped them as much as possible to stay on track
with their project timelines and maintain business
continuity.
Your Company amplified customer engagement
through technology. To maintain business continuity,
your Company leveraged digital solutions for de-risking
factory acceptance tests, product service and training,
and even commissioning of certain projects. Your
Company carried out close to a dozen Remote Factory
Acceptance Tests (RFATs) for leading industry players in
diverse sectors.
The High Voltage business unit provided a major stateowned power transmission company a virtual tour of
your Company’s high and low voltage technologies.
Your Company’s Transformers business unit enabled
India’s largest steel exporter to remotely inspect its
three-phase transformers for an upcoming project. Your
Company’s Grid Automation business unit conducted
RFATs to speed up activity for a leading utility service
provider for its projects in Gujarat and Maharashtra
and readied Substation Automation Systems for an
upcoming metro rail line, among others. Your Company’s
resilience assured its customers of on-time delivery,
equipment reliability and quality and won it big-ticket
projects.
Ensuring that your Company’s customer engagement
stayed high, your Company conducted numerous

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

virtual technical webinars, attended by over thousands
of participants from utilities, industries, transport and
infrastructure segment across countries. Your Company
launched its flagship customer event Energy and
Digital World, with over 600 customers attending virtual
inaugural event.
Your Company will be solidifying its presence in the
power sector and expanding its footprint and product
portfolio to support India’s talent and manufacturing
capabilities. Your Company will be investing towards
expanding its GIS product line to help the Indian
transmission and distribution sector – poised to register
a CAGR of 5.5 percent for the next five years – meet
present and future demand of substation systems.
Within that, your Company will augment the grid
integration technology such as regulating device used
on alternating current electricity transmission networks
and power quality products alone to enable power
transfer with the lowest environmental impact.
Your Company will be investing in its transformers
business, building up the traction transformers capacity
and increasing its product portfolio of high-voltage class
bushings through facility expansion for meeting imminent
demand from locomotives both domestically as well as
abroad. Your Company will simultaneously be investing
in equipment and machines to support research and
development activities for the buildout of various highvoltage global products, critical to India’s energy
revolution as well as progress under the Make-in-India
initiative. Already, your Company has made India the
manufacturing base of five global products, with the
largest installed base in the power sector nationally.
Besides commensurately increasing headcount to
support new projects and increased production, your
Company will be enhancing its remote monitoring,
analytics and services by expanding its customer
experience center in Bengaluru. The center will augment
real-time connectivity with energy assets and systems at
various sites, a part of the Company’s strategy to have
more digitally enabled products and systems to grow in
the areas of digitalization services.
Your Company is at the forefront of power technology
revolution, contributing to the Government’s renewable
energy targets through products and systems that
reduce carbon emissions. As a global leader in power
technologies, the Company is committed to make
adoption of alternate energy easier, faster and more
efficient.

36. Significant and material orders passed by the
regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the
going concern status of the Company:
During the financial year under review, no significant and
material orders were passed by the regulators or courts
or tribunals impacting the going concern status of your
Company.

55

56

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

With regard to listing process of your Company’s equity
shares and in terms of the SBI circular no. CFD/DIL3/
CIR/2017/21 dated March 10, 2017 as amended vide
SEBI circular dated Jan 3, 2018 (“SEBI Circular”),
your Company was required to list the equity shares
of your Company with BSE Limited and National
Stock Exchange of India Limited within 60 days of
the date of the receipt of the order approving the
Scheme of Arrangement. SEBI vide letter dated
March 13, 2020 notified to the Company, the delay in
compliance with the SEBI Circular and to ensure
compliance in future.

37. Internal financial control systems and their
adequacy:
The details on Internal financial control systems
and their adequacy are provided in the
Management’s Discussion and Analysis which forms
part of this Report.

38. Disclosure as per the Sexual Harassment of
Women at Work place (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act,2013:
Your Company has zero tolerance towards sexual
harassment at the workplace and has adopted a policy
on prevention, prohibition and redressal of sexual
harassment at workplace in line with the provisions of
the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013,
and the Rules there under. As required under law,
an Internal Complaints Committee has been
constituted for reporting and conducting inquiry into
the complaints made by the victim on the harassments
at the work place. During the financial year under
review, one case was reported which was investigated
and closed.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

in the Postal Ballot Notice dated April 30, 2020 which was
approved by the members during the financial year under
review for conducting the audit of the cost records
maintained by your Company.
The Board of Directors, on the recommendation
of the Audit Committee, has appointed M/s. Ashwin
Solanki & Associates, Cost Accountants (Registration
No: 100392) as Cost Auditor of your Company, for the
financial year 2021-22, for conducting the audit of the
cost records maintained by the Company.
A certificate from M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost
Accountants has been received to the effect that
their appointment as Cost Auditor of the Company,
if made, would be in accordance with the limits
specified under Section 141 of the Act and Rules framed
thereunder and they are not disqualified to be appointed
as Cost Auditor.
A resolution seeking Members’ approval for
remuneration payable to Cost Auditor forms part of
the Notice of the 2nd Annual General Meeting of your
Company and same is recommended for your
consideration. Cost Audit and Compliance reports for
the year 2019 were filed with the Registrar of Companies,
within the prescribed time limit.

41. Listing of the equity shares of the Company:
Your Company received listing and trading approval for
4,23,81,675 Equity Shares of ` 2 each from the BSE
Limited (“BSE”) and the National Stock Exchange of India
Limited (“NSE”) on March 25, 2020. The equity shares of
your Company commenced trading on BSE and NSE
from trading hours on March 30, 2020. The Stock Code
of Equity Shares of your Company are NSE Symbol:
POWERINDIA, BSE Scrip code: 543187 (POWERINDIA)
and ISIN: INE07Y701011

39. Statutory Auditors:
42. Shifting of registered office of the Company:
Pursuant to provisions of Section 139 of the Act read
with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014,
M/s. S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP, Chartered
Accountants (Registration No. 101049W/ E300004) were
appointed as Statutory Auditors, for a period of five
years, to hold office from the conclusion of first Annual
General Meeting until the conclusion of sixth Annual
General Meeting at such remuneration as may be
mutually agreed amongst by the Board of Directors and
the Statutory Auditors.

40. Cost Audit and Cost Auditor of the Company:
In terms of the provisions of Section 148 of the Act
read with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules,
2014, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of
the Audit Committee, appointed M/s. Ashwin Solanki &
Associates, Cost Accountants (Registration No: 100392)
as Cost Auditor of the Company, for the financial year
ending December 31, 2020, on a remuneration as stated

The registered office of your Company was shifted from
21st Floor, World Trade Center Brigade Gateway, No.
26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram, Bengaluru 560055 to 8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli
Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092 w.e.f. March 16, 2020.

43. Postal ballot:
During the financial year under review your Company
conducted postal ballot exercise through remote e-voting
pursuant to Section 110 and other applicable provisions,
if any, of the Act, read with Rule 22 and other applicable
rules of the Companies (Management and Administration)
Rules, 2014 (“Rules”) and General Circular No.14/2020
dated April 8, 2020, read with General Circular No. 17/2020
dated April 13, 2020, issued by Ministry of Corporate
Affairs, Government of India (“MCA Circulars”) and
pursuant to other applicable laws and regulations MCA
circulars vide Postal Ballot Notice dated April 30, 2020.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

44. Subsidiary/Joint venture :
Your Company did not have any joint venture or subsidiary
Company during the financial year under review.

45. Branch offices:
Your Company has completed opening of branch
office in Bangladesh during the year under review. Opening
of branch office in Sri Lanka and Nepal is in process.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

shares (out of total 4,23,81,675 Equity shares allotted on
December 24, 2019) to APPSIL Fractional Shares Trust
2019 on December 24, 2019. Catalyst Trusteeship
Limited (“Catalyst”) was appointed subsequently on
April 30, 2020 as the Trustee to handle fractional shares.
9,266 Equity shares were sold on July 27, 2020 for gross
amount totalling to ` 8,038,718.30. The tax deducted at
source aggregated to ` 1,711,516.05 and net amount
for distribution was ` 6,327,202.25. The distribution of
net proceeds commenced from August 3, 2020 through
online/cheque mode.

46. Fractional shares:
Pursuant to Scheme of Demerger, your Company had
also allotted fractional shares totaling to 9,266 Equity
Summary of distribution of fractional shares sale proceeds as on January 31, 2021 was as follows:
20,619 shareholders holding total fractional shares :
9,266 Equity shares

Amount

No of shareholders/cheques/
Dollar DD

Gross amount arising out of sale of fractional shares

` 8,038,718.30

20619

TDS amount deducted

` 1,711,516.05

20619

Net amount arising out of fractional shares (post TDS)

` 6,327,202.25

20619

RTGS and NEFT remittance completed:
18,614 shareholders have been paid successfully

` 5,709,760.12
(including 1st and 2nd tranche)

18614
(including 1st and 2nd tranche)

Balance shareholders cheques issued 2004
Rejected online cases
: 1138
Original DD cases
: 867
(including 1 Dollar DD case)
Total
: 2005
Cheques deposited and processed
(i.e. total amount and number of cheques encashed as on Jan 31, 2021)

` 617,442.13

2004 cheques

` 406,040.47

1277 cheques
727 cheques

Cheques balance pending for depositing by respective holders

` 211,401.00

(out of this 338 cheques amounting to
` 103,007 has been received back by
Kfin Technologies Private Limited,
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent as
on January 31, 2021)

47. Open offer:
During the financial year under review, a Letter of Offer
was issued by the Promoter group-ABB Switzerland Ltd
(Acquirer 1), Hitachi Ltd (Acquirer 2), Hitachi ABB Power
Grids AG (PAC 1) and ABB Ltd (PAC 2) dated September
02, 2020 (“Open Offer”) which opened on September 9,
2020 and closed on September 22, 2020. The open
offer was tendered for acquisition of 25 percent public
shareholding of your Company. Total of 179 Equity shares
were tendered by public shareholders. The Offer price
per share was ` 872.68 per share. 179 equity shares were
acquired under the said Open Offer and the consideration
was paid on September 30, 2020 by the Acquirers.

48. New factories in pipeline:
Your Company actively worked toward increasing its
market share in the HV segment. Your Company made

investment in portfolio expansion in the gas insulated
switchgear (GIS) space through the production of
145 kilovolt ELK04 GIS product line in Savli, Gujarat, a
feeder factory module assembly and an HV test setup
in Savli, Gujarat to enable cost reduction of ELK03
420 kV GIS products through local production, in new
production lines in Vadodara for various HV products to
meet global and local demand, as well as in factory
expansion for medium voltage power quality products in
Peenya to integrate all presently fragmented operations
under one roof to serve an ever-growing power quality
market both domestically as well as overseas.
Your Company proposes to increase the capacity of
medium voltage capacitors. This unit proposed to be in
Doddaballapur Industrial Area, Bengaluru, will also
cater to low and medium voltage power quality panels
and R&D. It will have state-of-the-art processes

57

58

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

including robotic painting and automatic conveyor
systems to address advance needs of safety and
quality.
This expansion is to cater to an expanding transmission
and distribution sector, poised to register a CAGR
of 5.5 percent for next five years with growth in
infrastructure, renewable & transportation. Further as
per the recommendation from the Central electricity
authority (CEA), all major utilities are likely to GIS
from air insulated switchgear to conserve space,
meet power demand and ensure grid reliability and
sustainability.
For your Company, these investments will bring
operational efficiency and improve our market
competitiveness. They will also generate additional
volume and EBIT for your Company.

49. Transfer of shares from ABB to Hitachi:
31,786,256 equity shares aggregating 75 percent of the
paid up capital of your Company was transferred from
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd to ABB Ltd by way of
dividend in kind, and subsequently from ABB Ltd to
Hitachi ABB Power Grids AG as contribution in kind
(as disclosed by the shareholders) on February 05, 2021.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

50. Acknowledgements:
The Board of Directors take this opportunity to thank
your Company’s parent company, customers, members,
suppliers, bankers, associates, Central and State
Governments and employees at all levels for their
support and co-operation extended to your Company
during the financial year under review.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097
Bengaluru
February 26, 2021

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Annexure - A to Boards’ Report
Management discussion and analysis
Industry structure and
developments
Economic and market overview
2020 was an unprecedented year of social and business
upheaval across the world. The COVID-19 outbreak rattled the
global economy and triggered a recession, the deepest since
the Second World War. It came as a double-barreled blow to the
global economy that was already reeling under uncertainty
around U.S.-China trade relations. As soon as an interim deal
was reached there, COVID-19 appeared and rapidly spread to
the entire world.
Curtailment measures such as transport suspension, travel
bans, quarantines, social distancing and remote work massively
restricted economic activity in Asian countries, the Middle East
and Europe, and finally in the Americas and Africa. Segments
with high degree personal contact had to substantially limit or
stop their operations, while many industries were directly
affected by supply chain problems or indirectly by insufficient
demand and also ceased production. Global working hours
likely dropped 14 percent in the second quarter of 2020,
according to the International Labour Organization, the
equivalent of 400 million full-time job losses based on a standard
48-hour working week.
Governments and central banks around the world responded
with unprecedented fiscal and monetary policy measures to
ensure short-term liquidity of businesses and households and
later to stimulate their economies after the steep fall. According
to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), these measures
resulted in fiscal policy responses totaling US$11.7 trillion and
extensive balance sheet expansion on the part of central banks.
As a result, and after initial lockdown measures were lifted while
the virus outbreak slowed, the global economy experienced a
strong rebound in the third quarter. But a full recovery could not
be achieved, due to fresh virus outbreaks and restrictions on
contact-intensive industries.
India, with a population of 1.4 billion, was amongst the
hardest hit nations by the pandemic, both economically as
well as in terms of the number of COVID-19 deaths
and infections. While annual economic growth had been
decelerating since 2016, the pandemic and the strict lockdowns
it triggered tipped it into a recession. The country’s output
contracted 24 percent year-on-year in the April-June quarter.
The International Monetary Fund forecasts India to shrink
10.3 percent in the year to March.

On its part, to rescue companies and salvage jobs, the
government injected about ` 30 trillion, or 15 percent of the
gross domestic product, in fiscal stimulus, with monetary
buy-in. By May, lockdown restrictions were also eased, and
business and industry could reopen in a phased manner. The
measures helped. The pace of shrinkage eased to 7.5 percent*
in the three months to September. Consumer durables, rail
freight, manufacturing, credit and stock market fast took to a
rebound.

Power sector overview
The power sector recovered as well. In March, the lockdown
caused a major slump in electricity demand, with total
generation dipping 7.3 percent y-o-y. By October, it was
back up on buoyancy in industrial and commercial activity,
outrunning 2019 levels. At the end of the year, India’s power
consumption was up by 6.1 per cent to 107.3 billion units (BU)
versus 101.08 BU the same time last year.
Energy efficiency and clean energy remained key focus areas
for the government throughout 2020. There was a major push
for electric vehicles and railway electrification and a parallel
drive for renewable energy (RE) integration through various
policies such PM Kusum Yojana, initiatives such as Power-forAll and Make-in-India, and commitments such as Mission
Innovation – a global initiative to accelerate public and private
clean energy innovation, Sustainable Development Goals and
Paris Agreement to cut carbon emissions. The government
also set a revised target of 220 gigawatt (GW) for RE integration
by 2022, up from 175 GW earlier, 30 percent electric vehicle
(EV) penetration by 2030 and 100 percent railway electrification
in the next 3.5 years.
The intensified focus on cutting carbon footprint yielded in a
record narrowing in the gap between coal-generated and
renewable-generated electricity. From 17 percent just before
the pandemic, the share of renewables accounted for about
24 percent of the 3.71 lakh megawatt installed capacity by
June 2020, while coal-fired power declined to 66 percent from
76 percent, according to energy analysts at the International
Energy Agency.
However, two parallel stories emerged: one where the falling
cost of renewables presented an opportunity for the country
to deliver cheaper electricity, the other where Distribution
Companies (DICOMS) and Generation Companies (GENCOs)
struggled with coal-related debts, unable to free up capital for
investments in solar, wind, and storage.
The precipitous slump in power demand due to the pandemic
that came on top of sluggish economic conditions since last

* https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/indicators/rbi-says-economy-to-contract-at-7-5-for-fy21-predicts-growth-to-turn-positive-in-second-half/
articleshow/79559390.cms?

59

60

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

year’s monsoon, corroded DISCOMs’ financial health and
in turn that of the generation sector, about half of which
is in private hands and reeling under a debt burden of its own.
To help DISCOMs recover lost cash flow and soften
the blow of the pandemic, the government provided an
` 90,000 crore lifeline for the power sector earlier in the year.
Some states also allowed DISCOMs to put off paying their
debts to generators and transmission companies for months to
see them through a period when customers were struggling to
pay their bills. While that did little to ameliorate their debt-ridden
condition, it impacted companies in the generation sector.
By November, GENCOs had ` 1.41 lakh crore in pending
dues, up from about ` 88,000 crore at the start of the year.
Withal, despite their dwindling cash-flows, generators were
expected to perform national service amid the public
emergency by providing uninterrupted power supply. Matters
were made worse with the rupee’s weakening against the
dollar over the past year, raising their cost for imported coal
as well as their cost of finance for rolling over their debts.
These economic and market conditions also influenced
your Company. Utilities, a major customer segment, was
impacted by the steep drop in demand and mounting debt,
while other segments such as industry and transport did the
heavy-lifting pre-empting future consumption. Due to the
lockdown, short-cycle demand plummeted, collections
dipped, and system installation and service activities faced
mobility restrictions. Your Company saw delays in approvals
of transmission corridors stalling transmission projects,
leading to a major reduction in extra high-voltage transmission
equipment, and also postponements in power and metro
projects. All this impacted its orders and revenues in the
second quarter.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Your Company’s investment in its people, its strategic
business continuity measures, its continued customer
engagement, and adaptation to the new norm began yielding
results by the third quarter. Your Company could see some
semblance of normalcy in business activity and demand,
revenue moving closer to pre-pandemic levels. Your Company
retained its focus on its fundamentals to build on existing
opportunities and make headway into its carefully chosen
high-growth segments such as grid automation and rail. Many
of these will drive business growth in the years ahead. Also
central to your Company’s vision were the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals, notably Goal 7 for affordable
and clean energy.
In the coming decade, your Company sees technology
developments and economic advantages strongly intertwine
with Government’s ambition to put India in a position to
transform its electricity sector, make India an EV manufacturing
hub, achieve the net-zero carbon-emitter status for the
Indian Railways and build strong local capabilities and
skills-set. The push on adoption of advanced digital
technologies such as big data and artificial intelligence to
curb emissions and improve efficiency, including the digital
solutions pioneered by your Company, is projected to continue
and opens a vast untapped market.

Business overview

To cushion the knock-on effect of the pandemic on
subsequent quarters, intensive cost mitigation and business
continuity measures were put in place which provided
marginal support. Operational resilience and effective use of
digital technologies ensured business resilience and your
Company was able to book major orders from industry and
rail. While your Company worked to mitigate the impact of the
crisis, achieve better liquidity and cash position, its top focus
remained the safety of its employees and customers.

Electricity will soon form the backbone of our country’s entire
energy system. Foreseeing the same, ABB Power Products
and Systems India Limited was listed on national stock
exchanges – National Stock Exchange and Bombay Stock
Exchange – in March 2020. By July 2020, globally we
commenced operation as Hitachi ABB Power Grids in which
Hitachi holds an 80.1 percent stake and ABB, the balance.
The joint venture (JV) brought together two highly respected
companies to create a global power leader, with a combined
heritage of 250 years in pioneering technologies. It opened
expansion opportunities for the power grids business in
areas such as mobility, industry and energy storage,
besides providing financial muscle to support ambitious
projects and enabling access to Japan, the third largest
economy in the world.

In accordance with the nationwide lockdown, your
Company’s shop floors, project sites and offices were
shut for more than 30 days. Your Company resumed
operations end of April as per the Ministry of Home Affair’s
directives in a staggered manner, with due safety guidelines.
However, the disarray in supply chain continued and some of
the big-ticket projects were impacted by the mass exodus of
migrant workers.

By leveraging capabilities in digital platforms, combined with
your Company’s energy platform and with a focus on intelligent
grids, Hitachi ABB Power Grids pushed into the fifth gear its
journey to enable customers to increase resilience and
efficiency, and unlock new business models. Your Company
leapt forward, driven to power good for a sustainable energy
future with its pioneering and digital technologies, striving to
create a stronger, smarter, and greener grid.

To meet timelines, your Company commissioned some
projects remotely, and executed remote factory acceptance
tests (R-FATs) to help customers stay on track with their
projects. Your Company conducted numerous technical
webinars, attended by several hundred customers virtually,
on technologies that can aid a greener and sustainable postCOVID-19 economic recovery.

Your Company committed to creating value in emerging areas
like sustainable mobility, smart cities, energy storage and data
centers, through its four businesses - Grid Automation, Grid
Integration, Transformers and High Voltage Products. Packed
with an extensive portfolio of smart solutions ranging from
Renewable Integration and Energy Storage, through Enterprise
Asset Management and e-Bus Charging, to Energy Service, IT,

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

OT and products, they served utility, industry and infrastructure
customers across the value chain.
Your Company’s presence in India spans six decades,
16 manufacturing units in five key locations and 17 sales
offices. Your Company has more than 2,000 employees
serving over 1,000 customers across the power value chain.
Your Company’s strong footprint, scale, largest installed
base, and local capabilities comprising of a solid pool of
engineers, researchers, scientists, field engineers and
software developers, alongside other functional talents, braced
it to power India’s energy future.

Segment and product-wise
reporting
Your Company is engaged in the business relating to
products, projects and services for electricity transmission and
related activities. Accordingly, your Company’s activities
and business is reviewed regularly by the chief operating
decision maker from an overall business perspective, rather
than reviewing its products/services as individual standalone
components. Thus, your Company has only one operating
segment, and has no reportable segment in accordance with
Ind AS-108 ‘Operating Segments’.

Our strategy
Hitachi ABB Power Grids strived to achieve its ‘purpose’ of
Powering Good for a sustainable energy future, with pioneering
and digital technologies, as the partner of choice for enabling
a stronger, smarter, and greener grid. This mission built upon
three strategic pillars. First, to become a growth engine through
developing a world-class front-end team and a customercentric mindset. Second, to sharpen your Company’s winning
portfolio and business models by competitiveness and
maximized customer value. And third, to drive for world-class
execution by ensuring industry-leading quality and operational
performance. These pillars are anchored to a foundation of
people and innovation. While hiring top talent and building
people capabilities for large projects was a challenge across
the power industry, your Company was sure of its strengths,
empowered by its agile structure and expected overall
market growth.
For the future, your Company’s continued focus on research
and development (R&D) positions it well to deliver value to its
customers even in times of transformation. Your Company is
constantly working on short-term evolutionary innovations to
existing products and services, as well as long-term innovations
crucial for maintaining and strengthening its position as a
leader in innovation and for supporting future growth. To
ensure your Company is flexible and result-driven, its global
research centers and business units are integrated with leading
universities in India and abroad, and with its other external
partners, in a networked environment.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Your Company will be solidifying its presence in the power
sector and expanding its footprint and product portfolio to
support India’s talent and manufacturing capabilities. Your
Company will be investing toward expanding its GIS
product line to help the Indian transmission and distribution
sector - poised to register a CAGR of 5.5 percent for the
next five years - meet present and future demand of
substation systems. Within that, your Company will augment
the grid integration technology such as regulating device
used on alternating current electricity transmission networks
and power quality products alone to enable power transfer
with the lowest environmental impact.
Your Company will be further investing in its transformers
business, building up the traction transformers capacity
and increasing its product portfolio of high-voltage class
bushings through facility expansion for meeting imminent
demand from locomotives both domestically as well as
abroad. Hitachi ABB Power Grids will simultaneously be
investing in equipment and machines to support research
and development activities for the buildout of various
high-voltage global products, critical to India’s energy
revolution as well as progress under the Make-in-India
initiative. Already, your Company has made India the
manufacturing base of five global products,
Besides commensurately increasing headcount to support
new projects and increased production, your Company will
be enhancing its remote monitoring, analytics and services
by expanding its customer experience center in Bengaluru.
The center will augment real-time connectivity with energy
assets and systems at various sites, a part of the Company’s
strategy to have more digitally enabled products and
systems to grow in the areas of digitalization services.
Hitachi ABB Power Grids is at the forefront of power
technology revolution, contributing to the Government’s
renewable energy targets through products and systems
that reduce carbon emissions. As a global leader in power
technologies, your Company is committed to make adoption
of alternate energy easier, faster, and more efficient. By
joining forces with Hitachi, we are able to create more value
for customers and work towards a sustainable society.
In 2021, your Company will be further enabling customers
to scale-up and accelerate digitalization, leveraging Hitachi’s
advanced digital technologies (e.g. LUMADA), IT and OT
(operational technology) facilitating increased operational
efficiency and optimization. Your Company will be offering
an even broader portfolio of services that goes beyond
transmission and distribution energy and utilities and into
industry, mobility, smart life (cities) and IT. Your Company’s
commitment to enhance social, environmental, and economic
value will have it co-create innovative solutions, such as
intelligent grid solutions, with its customers and partners.
Your Company sees immense scope in grid
automation, FACTS, rail, HVDC, data centers, software,
EV infrastructure and microgrids to drive future growth.
Your Company received significant orders from each

61

62

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

segment of these despite the lockdown. In the coming
time as well, Your Company sees itself well-positioned to
take advantage and have a leading position in these
attractive markets.

Operational overview
With faith in your Company’s offering and long-term
growth drivers, your Company established itself as a
new standalone listed entity in March even amid slow
economic growth, trade uncertainties and then a pandemic.
Economic activity right from the dominant services sector,
to the industry to agriculture took a toll due to a long
lockdown, the most extensive in the world. New capital
formation was disrupted with disturbances in supply chain
and new orders were delayed affecting your Company’s
second quarter growth.
However, thanks to a best-in-class manufacturing base and
globally respected technology portfolio, your Company
managed to rapidly restore business activity and ensure its
customers met their project timelines. Your Company
remained resilient in the face of adversity and quickly adapted
to the new normal. Your Company’s internal transformational
initiatives helped it to retain systematic cadence, agility and a
disciplined performance, maintaining business continuity,
customer engagement and portfolio growth even in hard
times. Your Company’s spirit for innovation and its people
strategy helped it bounce back to pre-pandemic levels by the
third quarter.
Your Company went on to book many a milestone order
from utility, transport, and industrial customers, right from
its substations, automation solutions to transformers and
high-voltage switchgear. Your Company initiated pilots for
digital transformers application for city grid and renewable
integration and in the transportation segment, in addition
to traction-based orders, signed an memorandum of
understanding with top industry and academic players to
deploy its innovative flash-charging technology, Grid-eMotion™
Flash, for e-buses and advance sustainability mobility.
Orders came mostly from utilities, industry, and transport
through direct engagement with customers during the year.
These orders were for products, your Company’s services,
and its project-wide involvement such as for Raigarh-Pugalur
800 kV ultra-high voltage direct current transmission link.
Even as economic momentum in the domestic market had
been slowing since last year, interest from overseas markets
compensated well to keep order growth robust.
Active, empathetic, and seamless virtual engagement
with employees, customers and partners was one of your
Company’s key priorities. Your Company held more than
20 CXO meetings to stay abreast of the dynamic business
and market situation and worked out various customer
engagement models such as webinars that included
several dozen industries, power generation developers,
EPCs, utilities and independent power producers. Your
Company conducted more than 30 webinars covering

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

trending topics such as renewable integration, storage, asset
management, digitalization, power quality and more and had
close to 6,000 participants from more than 200 customers in
19 countries across the globe.
Your Company also trained more than 600 customers online,
clocking 1,447 man-days. At the start of the year, when
physical proximity was not an issue, your Company had
trained an upward of 100 customers face-to-face.
Besides, on April 5, 2020, as India participated in a nineminute Diya Jalao initiative called upon by Prime Minister
Narendra Modi to show solidarity amidst the COVID-19
outbreak, your Company actively supported various
stakeholders in the power network to successfully carry the
event, ensuring grid stability even during the pandemic.
This was testament to the dependability of your Company’s
solutions. Assisted by reliable and efficient communication
and SCADA systems that allow remote monitoring
and control besides providing timely and actionable
insights into the health and performance of mission-critical
power infrastructure, your Company’s partners were able
to handle the event seamlessly. This feat, achieved in a
state of lockdown, also demonstrated to Indian power
sector players how they could confidently steer through the
new normal phase with the help of intelligent digital
technology.
Your Company has established Environment and Safety
Management Systems and is certified for ISO 14001 and
ISO 45001. Your Company’s customers recognize your
Company for its high standards, continuous enhancement
of technology applications and training of channel
partners on the highest operational benchmarks. Your
Company operates on the principles of LEAN and Six Sigma
(L6S) and by year end had trained 52 Yellow Belts, 8 Green
Belts, 1 Black Belt.

Discussion on financial
performance with respect
to operational performance
Performance during the reporting period
Customer interest remained unflinching despite the
hardships imposed by the pandemic. Your Company had
some significant order wins including, but not limited to:
•
•
•
•

A major ` 120 crore transformer order from Chittaranjan
Locomotive Works toward the Indian Railways,
A ` 100 crore order to strengthen mission critical power
infrastructure at HPCL Rajasthan Refinery’s Barmer refinery,
A ` 135 crore breakthrough transformer order for Tamil
Nadu’s Virudnagar substation,
A ` 94 crore renewable energy monitoring automation
order from a leading power transmission company in
Telangana,

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

•
•
•
•

Transformer orders from a power and infrastructure
company in Tamil Nadu exceeding ` 70 crore,
Several AMCs from top steel and O&G companies for
deploying your Company’s power quality solutions,
Rail and metro orders for your Company’s grid automation
and transformers exceeding ` 190-crore, and
Your Company also received substation orders from the
metal and mining industry exceeding ` 100-crore.

In the July to September quarter, your Company energized
the first phase of the Raigarh-Pugalur 800 kV UHVDC link
and conducted more than a 100 RFATs tests to strengthen
infrastructure across industry. Your Company’s High Voltage
business unit provided a major state-owned power
transmission company a virtual tour of its high and low voltage
technologies; its Transformers business unit enabled India’s
largest steel exporter to remotely inspect its three-phase
transformers for an upcoming project. Your Company’s Grid
Automation business unit conducted RFATs to speed up
activity for a leading utility service provider for its projects in
Gujarat and Maharashtra and readied Substation Automation
Systems for an upcoming metro rail line, among others. Your
Company’s resilience assured its customers of on-time
delivery, equipment reliability and quality.
In addition, your Company launched its game-changing
EV charging system for large-scale e-Mobility, GrideMotion™ Fleet. Earlier in the year, your Company had
signed an MoU with India’s largest bus manufacturer, Ashok
Leyland, to deploy its Grid-eMotion™ Flash solution for
their e-buses. Under the agreement, Ashok Leyland would
develop new electric buses using its flash-charge technology
which can top up the battery in just seconds while
passengers get on and off the bus. This avoids the need to
take the vehicle out of service for recharging every few hours
or having a replacement bus ready, thus minimizing the size
of the fleet while increasing passenger carrying capacity.
The latest market offering, Grid-eMotion™ Fleet, is a full
‘grid-to-plug’ solution for large-scale public transport and
commercial fleets, enabling operators to charge more with
less. Compared to a conventional connection to the AC grid,
the pioneering solution brings a 60 percent reduction in
space required for large-scale EV fleet charging, whilst
the depot cabling is reduced by 40 percent. The fast-toinstall solution harnesses renewable energy through grid
integration, smart mobility, digital energy management
system and incorporates insights from data analytics. It is
currently being localized for the Indian market.
Your Company also introduced its TXpert™ ecosystem, a
complete suite of products, software, services and solutions
that work together and drive data-driven intelligence and
decision making in the operations and maintenance of
transformers and power grids, allowing millions of dollars in
savings through greater flexibility, efficiency and resilience
in electricity networks.
Besides, your Company partnered with the National
Institute of Technology, Warangal (NITW), Telangana, to
drive smart electric grid technology education, skills
development and research activities. With the Department

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

of Electrical Engineering of NITW, your Company is
developing a unique Master of Technology program in Smart
Electric Grid. Your Company also took its association with
Ashok Leyland a step forward. Your Company teamed up
with them to run an e-bus pilot at the Indian Institute of
Technology Madras (IITM) campus to support sustainable
in-campus commuting by IITM’s students and staff. The
e-bus, which will incorporate Hitachi ABB Power Grids’
innovative flash-charging technology-Grid-eMotion™ Flash,
will be provided by Ashok Leyland. IITM will host the
infrastructure required to operate the flash-charging
system for the e-bus.
In addition to all this, your Company concluded its open
offer by September. Only 179 equity shares were tendered–
or 0.0004 percent of the shares out of the total paid-up
share capital, which demonstrated investor confidence
in your Company’s fundamentals and future growth by
shareholders. Your Company’s stock was up 81 percent by
December end since its listing on March 30, 2020.
Your Company’s orders for the year under review – January
to December 2020 – totaled ` 3,217.7 crore, and revenue was
` 3,438.9 crore. Profit-before-tax was ` 136.3 crore and
profit-after- tax ` 99.8 crores.

Services
The year saw a marked transition in the nature of
services. Traditional service orders such as repair,
replacement, extension, and maintenance of your Company’s
products across the different states stayed strong. To that
effect, your Company received multiple service orders for
high voltage and transformer installations from top utilities
and industry players.
In addition, customers across the country also switched
from process level to plant level service agreements, and
often they looked to upgrade existing infrastructure to
support the remote requirements enforced by the pandemic.
To name a few, your Company remotely commissioned
Control Switching devices in the North-East and conducting
troubleshooting of 400 kV GIS for a steel major in Odisha,
another in Ratnagiri and a utility in Vadodara.
Across generation, transmission, process industries
and metros customers embraced digitalization. Your
Company won a milestone order for automation at
Renewable Energy Management Centers that advances
its green vision by reliably integrating renewables into the
grid. Your Company also successfully commissioned its first
digitalization project in Maharashtra and booked multiple
lifecycle service orders in grid automation from state utilities
and manufacturing companies.
Exploration of your Company’s TXpert™ range also picked up
momentum, as customers matured from use of CoreTec™ and
CoreSense™ devices to upgrade their transformers to the
digital age, to deploying TXplore™ – the submersible robot
for internal inspection examining of transformers without the

63

64

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

need to remove the oil, in much less time than a human would
need to disassemble and examine.
Your Company remained a trusted partner for training top
talent and had training orders from national and state utilities.
Your Company’s technology and knowledge institute,
PowerTec, alone carried over 30 webinars attended by over
6,000 participants from more than 200 companies across 19
countries and also devoted efforts toward developing future
talent for its high-growth segments.
Value-based engagement ensured that customers in the
mission critical power and industrial value chain experienced
least downtime. Expanding your Company’s income from
service is a part of its 2025 vision and a lever your Company
continued to focus on this quarter, and your Company
continued the double-digit growth momentum in service
orders for the year under review.

Exports
As the world closed down in efforts to contain the virus, trade
between countries came to a standstill. Mission critical
sectors such as power were soon granted the license to
operate, and your Company strived to deliver through tough
market conditions and trade uncertainties. As markets began
to open and governments announced investment to jumpstart
the economy many took the opportunity to build back better.
Furthermore, your Company also received its largest single
export order for transformers for a green energy project in
Egypt. Your Company also booked large orders in product
and automation for metro systems in Australia and Thailand
as the countries migrated to cleaner alternatives for public
transport to ensure sustainable urbanization. Your Company’s
products are also enabling countries in Latin-America to
embrace green energy.
Your Company made headway into new emerging power
markets such as Uruguay, strengthened the grid in Vietnam
and signed deals with customers in Angola, Nigeria, Bhutan,
Tanzania, Switzerland, Chile, and many other countries.
High-voltage equipment and transformers from the
sub-continent saw high demand from South East Asia and
Africa. Closer to home, your Company leveraged its global
expertise to establish digital substation in Bhutan.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

enabled it to swiftly adapt and overcome the challenges
posed by lockdown, disruption of suppliers and
transportation and reduced manpower.
Your Company leveraged its digital foundations,
migrating to RFATs across all factories to provide uniform
experience to customer and on time delivery. Projects were
commissioned remotely for utility customers, ensuring
that essential services like power were not only continued
but were bolstered. Your Company conducted remote
trainings to ensure that customers could effectively deploy
and maximize the benefits of its technologies in a world of
unprecedented changes.
On a transformative journey, your Company is adopting
strategies of profitable growth, relentless execution, and
business-led collaboration. For the first time in India,
your Company successfully executed Multiprotocol Label
Switching-Transport Profile for a petrochemical giant and
state utility and executed 350 km Optical Service Transport
Platform for Raigarh-Pugalur High Voltage Direct Current
project. It was also the year where your Company
manufactured the largest number of 765 kV power
transformer units, track-side railway transformers and
traction transformers and started manufacturing 220 kV
power transformers. In addition, your Company continued
to be certified as feeder factories for the global needs of
your Company’s various products - a benchmark for quality
and operational excellence.

Initiatives
The efforts of past years continued to gain momentum in
your Company’s internal Power-Up program that makes
change and growth its core mantra to provide value for
customers. Your Company is well-positioned for long-term
success. Focused on quality as a license to operate,
employees invested in their competency development and
sustainable cultural change – on the principles of Lean and
Six Sigma, we had by year end trained 52 Yellow Belts,
8 Green Belts, 1 Black Belt.

Operational excellence

In these difficult market conditions, multi-functional, crossbusiness unit teams came together in collaborated sales
efforts with well governed processes to secure deals with
clear value proposition to its customers. For swift addressal
of customer requirements, your Company has structured its
sales organization to penetrate the market further for a larger
share, while nurturing talent to remain current and relevant to
customer needs. Through the year, your Company has taken
extensive actions to leverage its installed base, evaluate local
market needs for potential new product development and
customizations, engage early on with stakeholders for prioritized
market opportunities to maximize its win probabilities.

The pandemic tested and reaffirmed your Company’s
long-standing focus on continuous improvement towards
sustainable quality across the entire value chain - from
suppliers and employees to customers and communities.
Your Company’s structured investment over the years

Continuous Process Improvement approach help identify
and accrue cost savings across its manufacturing
locations, with employees across the value chain showing
ownership and expertise. With the installation of a new
RO plant, consumption of process water was reduced by

Making in India for India and the world for over six decades,
your Company is always investing in developing its
capabilities to ensure world-class manufacturing facilities
and competence – a true sign of self-reliance.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

3,300 kl per month in the transformer factories. Such
greening initiatives were complemented by employees
engineering solutions and processes that helped them
adhere to strict COVID-19 guidelines – be it in terms of
layout for social distancing and decontamination areas,
reducing touch points in a process, or solutions for
temperature monitoring. Digital tools were also introduced
for your Company’s frontline onsite engineers – to monitor
their health and to warn in case of risks.
The pandemic posed an unprecedented situation for
most and even though industry forums migrated to the
virtual platforms, they became critical to network and
learn best practices to adapt to the ever-changing
demands of the time. Your Company continued to contribute
to such discussions as well as to thought leadership
in areas energy, electric mobility, smart cities, and
digitalization through events organized by industry
bodies like Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Central
Board of Irrigation And Power (CBIP), International
Council on Large Electric Systems (CIGRE) and government
bodies like Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE),
embassies, and so on.

Research and Development (R&D)
Your Company’s pioneering spirit and commitment to
continuous innovation runs deep in its bloodline. For
more than a century your Company has been recognized
as pioneers and front-runners in technology development
– delivering customer value by adopting a solution-oriented
approach. Over the decades, your Company has nurtured
a mindset of always anticipating the future needs of
its customers. Your Company fostered this spirit and today,
its talented experts continue to thrive on finding new ways
to solve customer needs – and in turn, help solve major
societal challenges.
Your Company commenced the year with the launch of
PowerDEC (Power Digital Experience Center) in Bengaluru,
showcasing the possibilities of its digital solution in tandem
with its technology solutions (in PowerTEC in Vadodara).
Your Company used this as a platform to continue engaging
with customers and stakeholders in Plan-Build-Operate
phase of digital transformations of their plants and systems.
To truly understand and develop to the needs of the local
market, your Company entered into an MOU with Ashok
Leyland on e-mobility to pilot electric bus charging and
operation in India. Innovation is rooted in collaboration, and so
your Company continue participating in various R&D related
activities in association with industry bodies, professional
technical groups, forums and policy makers, and R&D have
received awards and recognitions in terms of application of
innovation, technical publications and presentations.
Your Company’s R&D activities are carried out in the
global R&D and technology centers as well as R&D
embedded in the local businesses, leveraging its local
competence for creating social, environmental, and

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

economic value, globally. Development of new products,
features, localized products, and solutions secures
as well as creates additional revenue with increased
number of customer engagements and installed bases.
The financial year under review witnessed the launch
of an open, scalable, manufacturer-agnostic ecosystem
for digitalization of transformers, designed to drive datadriven intelligence, and advances like this promise to shape
future power grids.

Talent
Your Company’s investment in training and upskilling
employees continues to set us apart in the market. Your
Company’s success rests on attracting, developing and
retaining the right talent who are highly engaged. Your
Company’s constant focus is also to ensure a working
environment of inclusive leadership, transparency and
belonging.
Your Company has embraced the new philosophy of
life-long learning at Hitachi ABB Power Grids in India.
In addition to numerous functional, technical & leadership
training programs tailored for different segments,
your Company also offer multiple platforms for employee
self-learning. Such initiatives have proved instrumental
in penetrating and expanding the market presence and
in introducing key technologies. As your Company
continue to grow, its focus to invest in talent in the
segments that are vital for its business growth also
sharpens.
For a nation-wide smart electric grid, India’s education
system and future talent play a vital role. In recognizing
this need, your Company partnered with the Department
of Electrical Engineering of National Institute of
Technology, Warangal (NITW), to develop a unique
Master of Technology (M.Tech) program in Smart
Electric Grid (SEG) from 2020. The aim is to create a
socially relevant and yet internationally-acceptable
curriculum, implement innovative and effective teaching
methodologies and sharpen focus on the wholesome
development of students at the Institute over the next five
years. In addition to crafting the course content for the
program, your Company will support the Institute in
setting up a laboratory for SEG technology and provide
internship opportunities for SEG for the M.Tech students
and Ph.D scholars.

Collaboration
The pandemic notwithstanding, Hitachi ABB Power
Grids in India continued its extensive engagement
with the government, utilities, industry, policy bodies,
industrial forums such as CII, Indian Electrical &
Electronics Manufacturers’ Association (IEEMA), India
Smart Grids Forum (ISGF) and even media to share
about its products and solutions, advance constructive
dialogue and shape a sustainable energy policy. Besides

65

66

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

teaming up with NITW to advance smart grid education
in India, your Company also partnered with Ashok
Leyland and IIT Madras to demonstrate the future of
smart mobility; all this in its pursuit of a stronger, smarter,
and greener future grid.
Your Company’s pilot projects honored the Government
of India’s Smart Cities Mission and mission for a clean
energy future. Your Company collaborated with
customers, especially utilities, to ensure smooth
operations and power availability even in a time of crisis.
Your Company also conducted numerous technical
webinars, attended by several hundred customers
virtually, on technologies that can aid a greener and
sustainable post-COVID-19 economic recovery. Besides,
your Company launched its flagship customer event
Energy and Digital World, with over 600 customers
attending the virtual inaugural event.

Material developments in
Human Resources /
Industrial Relations front
Human resources
Your Company strongly believes that its employees are
the key pillar of your Company’s success in the market.
Your Company continues to attract the best of talent,
thanks to its diverse yet inclusive culture and ability to
opportunities for their career growth. Your Company’s
people strategy is aligned with its overall vision to be the
pioneer in shaping the future of sustainable energy and
your Company is committed to nurturing a cordial and
diversified work environment in a growing market and in
maximizing the potential of its workforce.
As of December 31, 2020, your Company’s employee base
stood at 2,290. As a technology leader in power systems
domain, with an inclusive culture and growing scope for
opportunities for nurturing talent, your Company remains
an employer of choice. To ensure that your Company
continues to attract top talent, your Company has
launched innovative employer branding initiatives and
consistently created avenues for embracing the culture of
life-long learning.
Your Company has invested in the development of its
employees and are devoted to helping them adapt and
perform better in this volatile, uncertain, complex, and
ambiguous (VUCA) market environment. With enhanced
performance management and talent strategy, your
Company focuses on attracting, assessing and developing
its human capital for today and for the future. Your
Company pays immense attention to inculcating a
learning environment within teams and providing
opportunities for global mobility, to manage talent in key
function areas.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Your Company had to reset its course to be resilient with the
changes the pandemic situation has brought in 2020. We’d
embarked on its new journey with a focus on 3Ps:
•

•

•

Protecting our people: Voluntary COVID-19 test centers
across office locations and factories which covered
2000 employees; Association with Connect and Heal to
facilitate 24/7 expert healthcare support to employees
and their family, Employees who have been diagnosed
COVID-19 positive were also extended further support
based on their need – financial / non-financial
Preserving the business continuity: 30 percent work
force capacity at any given time, flexible work practices,
enablement and accessibility to digital platforms
for smooth business operations. Ensuring transparent
communications driven by the leadership through regular
digital round ups and bulletins
Preparing for the new norm: introduced new safety
norms, creating continuous awareness about the
pandemic and preventive measures including doctor
talks, highest level of safety measures were undertaken
including workplace sanitization, thermal screening,
distribution of face masks and face shields, demarcation
of work stations.

Never has your Company been so severely tested before
on the resilience front than recently when your Company
was itself coping and helping its customers & employees
cope with the COVID-19 outbreak. While your Company’s
learning and development (L&D) function continued its
focus on leadership and professional development
programs, your Company also shifted gears in
incorporating self-paced learning and steered away from
the status quo through various programs not limited to
change management, resilience & others to help employees
redefine business problems in a way that makes new,
innovative responses possible. The Company’s L&D team
also saw the transformation of the Global Training Programs
such as PG4U, Middle Managers Program, Leadership
Essentials Program and Female Talent development
Program. This year, there was increased focus on
developing cross cultural awareness and preparing
managers to deal with a workforce which is increasingly
diverse and technology friendly. At Hitachi ABB Power
Grids in India, a self-paced, lifelong learning integrated
effectively into its workday, is your Company’s instrument
of choice to empower its employees.
Your Company encourages its employees to progress within
the organization as opportunities arise. The organization
has a strong talent management process to evaluate the
best of talent, encourage and provide career development
opportunities for promising employees through individual
career development plans. Developing leaders internally
continues to be a priority for the Company & with that in
mind, succession plans are developed for all critical roles
in the organization post talent risk assessments and
engagement study.
In addition, persistent attention to provide an inclusive
environment to promote diversity in especially abled people,

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

gender, age, and culture, including opportunities for global
mobility. An ex-employee outreach program was also
launched to encourage rehiring of high performers who may
have left for various reasons. Your Company also launched
Diversity 360 to position Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) at the
core of its long-term business success. Your Company
believes Diversity + Collaboration = Innovation. The
organization promises to deliver brilliant employee
experiences as a new company, where its extraordinary
talents are given the right environment and are empowered
to thrive.
To foster the D&I culture in our organization, Hitachi
ABB Power Grids in India focused on incorporating
D&I as each business unit’s accountability by launching
SPECTRUM – India’s diversity & inclusion forum. SPECTRUM
provides a platform for employees’ networking and
engagement and works with diversity councils to execute
D&I initiatives across business units and also measure the
effectiveness of all such initiatives.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

67

Key financial ratios
Ratios

FY 2020

FY 2019

Debtors Turnover

2.0

2.0

Inventory Turnover

7.0

6.7

Interest Coverage Ratio

9.4

10.9

Current Ratio

1.1

1.1

Debt Equity Ratio

NA

NA*

Operating Profit Margin (%)

7.8

10.4

Operating EBITA (%)

5.7

9.0

Net Profit Margin (%)

2.9

5.1

Details of any change in return on net worth as
compared to immediate previous financial year
along with a detailed explanation thereof

NA

NA**

*Not applicable as your Company had short-term borrowing only in books
**Not applicable since your Company was incorporated on February 19, 2019,

During the financial year under review, your Company had
floated a Voluntary Retirement Scheme for workmen in its
Grid Automation unit, Peenya with an objective to achieve
overall improvement of the long-term cost visibility of the
business and to remain cost effective in an increasingly
competitive business environment. Two employees accepted
the offer with a cash outflow of ` 1.34 crores.

Finance
Your Company continued its credible performance through
relentless execution and business-led collaboration. Your
Company generated revenue worth ` 3,438.94 crores in
2020 against ` 3,236.53 crores in 2019, reflecting stability of
operations in difficult economic conditions. Your Company’s
net profit stood at ` 99.80 crores against ` 165.4 crores.
Your Company’s current ratio was at 1.1 and interest
coverage ratio at 9.4, showing strength in its balance sheet
and its ability to maximize capital. Your Company’s debtor
turnover ratio was 2.0, indicating its robust collection
processes. However, your Company is also discussing
potential repayment mechanisms to clear historical overdues.
Inventory turnover stood at 7.0. Your Company’s operating
EBITA was 5.7 percent, while net profit margin was at
2.9 percent.
In 2020, the interest cost borne by your Company was
` 20.4 crore. As on December 31, 2020, your Company had
a net cash balance of ` 319.0 crore. In terms of foreign
currency exposure – for imports and exports – your Company
continued to conservatively hedge at the point of commitment
to protect the contract margins.
Details of significant changes (i.e. change of 25 percent or
more as compared to the immediately previous financial year)
in key financial ratios, along with detailed explanations
thereof:

previous year figures are not applicable.

Disclosure of accounting treatment: Your Company followed
IND-AS and has detailed its accounting policy in Note 2 of the
financial statements.

Risk and concerns
Risk is inherent in business. Hitachi ABB Power Grids
is well-supported by vigorous risk management and
governance mechanisms. Our risk management charter and
policy provide us an overarching outline in that regard.
Your Company’s Risk Management (“RM”) policy details
the process for identifying, escalating, prioritizing, mitigating
and monitoring key risk events and action plans. The
assessment of risks covers areas of strategy, technology,
finance, operations and systems, legal and regulatory and
human resources risks. There are appropriate assurance
and monitoring mechanisms in place to monitor the
effectiveness of your Company’s RM framework, including
the mitigation plans identified by management for key risks.
Your Company undertake RM exercises to identify and
expand its knowledge of potential risks in a changing market
and handle them effectively.
Your Company’s existing framework provides for risk
reviews at various levels based on the organizational
structure matrix. Periodic assessment of risks, potential
impact relating to business growth, profitability, talent
engagement, and market position are conducted. Response
to key operational risks, based on inputs received from the
internal and external assessment, internal and performance
review among others are done on a regular basis.
The aim is to minimize adverse impacts, leverage market
opportunities efficiently, and enhance your business
competitiveness.

68

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Internal control systems
and their adequacy
Internal Controls (IC) in your Company have been
designed to withstand and further the interest of all
stakeholders by providing an environment which is
conducive to conduct its operations. Your Company’s IC
environment is in place to take care of, inter alia, financial
and operational risks.
Your Company maintains a holistic framework to that
effect with elements like a Country Management
Committee, Group Directives and Instructions, Local
Management Instructions, Entity-Level Controls, Process
Level Controls and Management Testing Programs. The
same provides a platform for adequate control processes
commensurate with the size of the Company. A strong
emphasis on integrity and ethics forms a part of your
Company’s work culture. An independent service provider,
having expertise in the field, performs Internal Financial
Control effectiveness testing.

Outlook
Following a period of extreme turbulence starting February
2020, markets began to show gradual recovery in the second
half of the year. The ambition for clean energy and naturepositive infrastructure remained in focus as the government
set even more ambitious renewable energy targets, promoted
rail electrification, incentivized electric vehicle adoption, and
provided credit liquidity for distressed power entities to
ensure uninterrupted power transmission.
Your Company witnessed an accelerated shift from
fossil-based power production towards renewable-based
generation, growing electrification of transportation, of
industry and of buildings, and even higher interest in
sustainable energy carriers such as green hydrogen.
As energy and electricity demand rises, significant
investment in capacity addition, grid infrastructure and
energy efficiency will be required. The IEA expects India’s
energy demand to more than double by 2040, while electricity
demand could triple with current policies in place.
Your Company needs to build capacity, flexibility and
resilience in its power infrastructure to integrate increasing
amounts of intermittent renewables and distributed
energy and address new supply and demand challenges.
To ensure power for all, your Company will have to make
the grid stronger, smarter and greener.
Your Company believes the carbon-neutral future is electric
and see itself playing a leading role in driving the Energy
Transition. Your Company cares about social value – ensuring
reliable and affordable energy supply; environmental value –
ensuring sustainable development; and economic value –
bringing cost optimization/effectiveness for our customers.
Through its digital and energy platform, your Company offers
intelligent solutions to customers and partners for a

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

sustainable energy future and contribute better to the
Sustainable Development Goals.
Power demand in India has already surpassed previous
year’s levels and your Company sees utilities, which have
traditionally been averse to the adoption of new technologies,
now starting to realize the benefits of smart power
solutions and investing in upscaling, digitalization and on
cybersecurity. With more data coming out of customers’
meters, utilities are focusing on data analytics for load
forecasting, generation planning, managing peaks and
increasing customers’ awareness regarding energy efficiency.
Big data and cloud computing are useful tools that are aiding
these initiatives. Cloud models are lowering utilities’ IT capital
expenditure and offering unlimited computing and advanced
analytics, while IoT is helping power companies remotely
monitor, manage and protect their assets. The new normal
has brought home the significance of investing in such
technologies that are not held hostage to physical immobility
or absence.
In addition, your Company has seen large corporates
increasingly signing power purchase agreements (PPAs) with
generators to meet their energy requirements. Most of these
are signed with renewable energy generators, enabling them
to increase the share of renewable energy in their
total consumption. Companies such as Amazon, Facebook
Google, and Microsoft continued to sign PPAs in 2019, and
this trend is expected to continue in the future due to the
expansion of the datacenters market.
The rise in renewable energy will continue to challenge
existing high-baseload structures in favor of distributed
generation and volatile energy sources dependent on weather.
As electricity generation grows increasingly volatile and
decentralized, schedulers, traders, and risk managers will
need to be able to react quickly to changing supply and
demand conditions. Your Company will need to leverage all
forms of technology, from interconnections and backbone
transmission to grid edge, from storage to power quality, with
digitalization across the value chain and collaboration across
all stakeholders.
In 2021, your Company looks at playing an active role in
renewable energy integration as government aims to
increase generation capacity; in railway electrification with
27,000 kilometers yet to be electrified by 2023; in regional
transport ventures such as National Capital Region Transport
Corporation (Delhi – Meerut) and high-speed rail (Ahmedabad
– Mumbai), and in metro projects that are either under
execution or in a planning. Data centers hold vast untapped
potential for your Company in India. With the Government
expected to roll out a data center policy soon, your Company
will likely see exponential growth and areas to pitch its
products and services for segment augmentation and
business growth.
Your Company is also awaiting further developments
in the e-mobility space which is at a nascent stage
in the country right now. With many cities coming up
with a Bus Rapid Transit System, there is an opportunity area

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

which can go electric. At the get-go, your Company is wellplaced to support the segment with its award-winning,
innovative flash and fleet charging solutions– Grid-eMotion™
Flash and Grid-eMotion™ Fleet.

port infrastructure and shore-to-ship power systems. This is
an encouraging development and with your Company’s
offerings your Company is well-positioned to take advantage
of it.

As leaders in HVDC technology, your Company is currently
executing the Raigarh-Pugalur HVDC project and see
opportunities for upgrades of maturing HVDC stations in the
coming years. Your Company is also seeing investments
starting to happen toward port upgradation i.e., deployment
of smart port infrastructure and shore-to-ship power systems.
This is an encouraging development and your Company is
well-positioned to take advantage of it with its offerings.

The financial stress due to the lockdown, coupled with the
already precarious position of the power sector requires a
renewed focus and commitment to reforms, such as a revisit
to cross-subsidy surcharges and energy costs, that are not
only balanced but also implemented at an accelerated pace.

Opportunities and threats
For 2020, unexpected turn of events has impacted your
Company’s market outlook. While various macro parameters
had been putting a downward pressure on economic growth,
the Coronavirus outbreak has pushed many projects and
orders to the backseat. However, Government spending in
infrastructure and efforts to boost credit liquidity will provide
a mild thrust for industry capex. As normalcy is restored,
renewables and rail will continue to be areas of robust growth,
while the data center and e-mobility markets will unleash
opportunities for new business models and overall sector
growth. More clarity and policy impetus from the Government
will help to speed up investments. However, your Company
expects prices to remain under pressure due to competition
and the desire of Government for a lower price discovery in
rail and solar projects.
In 2021, your Company looks forward to playing an even more
active role in renewable energy integration as government
aims to increase generation capacity, railway electrification
with over 28,000 kilometers yet to be electrified by 2023-24,
regional transport ventures and high-speed rail, and in
metro projects that are either under execution or under
planning. Data centers is another market for your Company
that holds a huge untapped potential. With the Government
expected to roll out a new data center policy soon, your
Company expects to see exponential growth and areas to
pitch its products and services for segment expansion and
business growth.
Your Company is also awaiting further developments in the
e-mobility space which is at a nascent stage in the country
right now. With many cities coming up with transitways or Bus
Rapid Transit, there is an opportunity area which can go
electric. At the outset, your Company sees itself well-placed
to support the segment with its award-winning, innovative
flash and fleet charging solutions – Grid-eMotion™ Flash and
Grid-eMotion™ Fleet.
As leaders in HVDC technology, your Company is currently
executing the Raigarh-Pugalur HVDC project and has already
energized the first phase. In the coming years, your Company
see opportunities for upgrades of other maturing HVDC
stations. Your Company is also seeing investments starting to
happen toward port upgradation i.e., deployment of smart

India’s power system has undergone massive transformation
due to significant reforms by the Government of India in the
past. Their reforms have led to the creation of a single national
power grid (One Nation One Grid) and boosted access to
electricity for citizens across urban and rural areas. The
system has been in surplus in recent years thanks to the
investment in generation. However, our Country’s power
infrastructure has also aged greatly and needs greater
investment in power product and system upgradation. As a
signatory to the Paris Agreement, India has taken the
responsibility of creating a cumulative carbon sink of 2.5-3
billion tons of carbon dioxide equivalent by 2030. This coupled
with the Renewable Energy target of 450 GW by 2030 makes
it crucial for India to work towards modernizing its grid and
make it smarter.
As your Company became more reliant on technology owing
to a systemic push for Digital India and EV adoption, electricity
will be the backbone of its entire energy system and the
national economy. An efficient grid will make for overall
economic prosperity while helping it to achieve its climate
and renewable energy targets. Your Company aims for an
exemplary partnership to build back better.
In all this, your Company is confident that it has the expertise
and footprint to build on the momentum and power ahead.

Cautionary statement
Certain statements made in the Management Discussion
and Analysis Report relating to the Company’s objectives,
projections, outlook, expectations, estimates and others
may constitute ‘forward looking statements’ within the
meaning of applicable laws and regulations. Actual results
may differ from such expectations whether expressed
or implied. Several factors could make significant difference
to your Company’s Operations. These include climatic
and economic conditions affecting demand and supply,
government regulations, taxation, and natural calamities over
which the Company does not have any direct control.

69

70

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Annexure - B to Boards’ Report
Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration
The information relating to remuneration of Directors / Key Managerial Personnel as required under Section 197(12) of
the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
Rules, 2014.
1. Ratio of the remuneration of each Executive Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the
financial year 2020, the percentage increase in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer (MD), Chief Financial Officer and
Company Secretary during the financial year 2020.
Sl No.

Name of the Director /
Key Managerial Personnel

Designation

Ratio of remuneration of
each Director to median
remuneration of employees

Percentage increase
in Remuneration

1

Mr. Venu Nuguri

Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer

88%

15%

2

Mr. Ajay Singh

Chief Financial Officer

28%

15%

3

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda

General Counsel &
Company Secretary

25%

NIL

Notes:
a)

Revision in remuneration of Mr. N. Venu, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer is effective March 2020 recommended by
Nomination & Remuneration Committee and approved by Board of Directors’ on February 08, 2021.

b)

Independent Directors of the Company are entitled for sitting fees and commission as per the statutory provisions and within the limits
approved by the share holders. As a policy, the Non-Executive-Non-Independent Directors are neither paid sitting fee nor paid any
commission. The details of remuneration of Non-executive Directors are provided in the Corporate Governance Report. The ratio of
remuneration and percentage increase for Non-executive Directors Remuneration is therefore not considered for the above purpose.

2. Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees for the financial year: 9.99 percent.
3. Number of permanent employees on rolls of the Company as on December 31, 2020 : 2,290 employees.
4. Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than managerial personnel in the last financial
year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and to point out
if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration: As per Company’s increment guideline.
5. Affirmation that the remuneration is as per remuneration policy of the Company: Yes

							
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
							For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
							
Bengaluru					
February 26, 2021					

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Annexure - C to Boards’ Report
Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings
and outgo.
Pursuant to provisions of Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts)
Rules, 2014.
A. Conservation of energy
1. Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:
• Replaced conventional and Metal Halide lights with energy efficient Light Emitting Diode light fixtures in office, production
bays, testing and store areas. All upcoming infrastructure investments are planned with installation of energy efficient Light
Emitting Diode
• Power saving in lighting achieved by installing motion sensors in washrooms. Installed Timers in High Bay Light fixtures
of Core, Assembly and Active part area in Large and Medium Power Transformers factory. It has resulted in Energy saving
by controlling the operation of lights in day hours
• Installed Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) in Air compressor. It resulted in energy saving by reducing energy losses in load
and no-load cycle of Air compressor
• Power factor for the year 2020 was maintained at 0.99 by replacing Faulty capacitors, increasing the frequency of periodic/
preventive maintenance to identify faulty units, replacement of fixed capacitor bank by Automatic power factor correction
panel
• The old centralized air compressor system is upgraded by installing new energy efficient, automated, Variable Frequency
Drive based Air compressor near to the load in Live Tank Breakers and Instrument Transformers factories. It has resulted
in saving in energy by reducing the line losses and by increasing the cut off hours of the compressor
• The old underground Mild Steel line of fire hydrant network replaced by stainless steel pipes. It has resulted in saving in
water and energy by reducing the frequent operation of Jockey Pump
• Reduction in operating pressure of compressor and attending the leakages thus reducing the operational hours of
compressor
• New Reverse Osmosis (RO) Plant was installed for treatment of process water from Central Effluent Treatment Plant
• Centralized Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) for efficient handling & treatment of process water from production lines
• Treated water (~ 30%) from RO plant is recycled back to the process thereby reducing freshwater intake from the river
• Water audit conducted to find out leakages in the existing network and actions to cap the leakages
2. The steps taken by the Company for utilising alternate sources of energy:
• Rooftop solar Photo Voltaic power in factory locations
• Buying green (solar and wind) from energy service companies (wheeled power) for factory operations
3. The Capital Investment on energy conservation equipment’s:
• Light Emitting Diode lighting, Motion sensor system for lighting control
• Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) in AHU air compressors
• Power factor improvement solutions
• Centralized Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP)
• New Reverse Osmosis (RO) Plant
B. Technology absorption
1. The efforts made towards technology absorption:
• Development and type testing of IMB 145 cost out and IMB 420, 3kA legacy design
• Development of Dielectric Dissipation Factor switch in Hybrid Capacitor Voltage Transformer portfolio
• Oil Impregnated Paper Electro-magnetic Unit optimization and introduction in Hybrid Capacitor Voltage Transformer
• Facility for manufacturing and testing of 800kV High Voltage Direct Current converter
• Short Circuit test on largest rated 7760 kVA Dry type Excitation transformer
• Successfully deployed pilots to demonstrate Digital Transformer technologies on new and installed power transformers
• Adopted and applied Transformer design technology for Ester fluid insulated units up to 400kV (under execution)

71

72

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Successfully used Common Design System (TrafostarLite) design platform to develop and prototype testing of 30.24MVA
220kV 1-phase Railway Trackside feeder transformers
Carried out touchless inspection of power transformers using TXplore™ – an inspection robot remotely operated by
service personnel without the need to remove oil offering time and cost advantage in transformer inspections
New design and development of 145 kV vertical break disconnector for 75/63kA 3150/4000A for American National
Standards Institute as well as International Electrotechnical Commission markets
New design and development of 145 kV Center Break Disconnector for 40kA 1250/1600A
New design and development of 500Nm Worm Geared Drive with reduced cost as well as complying to American National
Standards Institute market requirements
Technology transfer of DDHV145
Qualification of existing products for American National Standards Institute market requirements (SDF & eDB - 72.5kV
to 362kV)
BOM structure synchronization between SAP and PLM for Disconnector Switch products
Introduction of IMB 73 cost out in line with IMB145 cost out
Introduction of bellow design in IMB145 cost out
Validation of SDF145 2500A to enhanced rating of 3150A
Class B feature adaption in DEB420 Earth Switch
Extended product ratings for BTS to SDF 36 & 72.5 kV
Type testing of current transformer - IMB420, 2kA SWIFT design
Technical and operational knowhow systematically adopted to apply on new Digital technologies and products like
CoreSense, CoreTec and Ellipse APM edge (Transformer predictive monitoring and asset management)
SDF 420 Disconnector type tested for 50kA for 3s
Synchro Phasors measurement and monitoring Systems
Railway electrical protection system
Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) -Broadband Fiber optic communication system for power utility & oil & gas sector
applications
Asset Performance Management (APM)
Improvement in design of COMBITEST test switches to handle Current Transformer secondary side interruptions while
diagnostic testing of numerical relays
Improvement in design of Fuse failure relay with contact configurations as per new market demand
Design and development of new Bust Potential Transformer selection relay on COMBIFLEX platform
Virtual Reality (Power Twin) technologies for power equipment
High Voltage Direct Current Control & Protection Latest Technology: Digitally enabled and flexible, natural cooling and
compact
Cyber security assessment and compliance
Collaboration with R&D for new technologies in renewable energy integration, cyber security and latest digital technologies
Flexible AC Transmission System - Collaboration with regional and global engineering, local resources hired for engineering
and bids and proposal
Prefabricated Substation - Collaboration with global engineering; Developed in-house competency through Learning
by doing
Grid-eMotion™ Flash - Collaboration with Global Product Group engineering; Developing in house competency through
pilot project
Offshore wind substation - Collaboration with global engineering; Deputed engineer to Germany to develop such competency
Digital Substation and Data Center Substation - Developed competency through execution
Reliability centered substation operation and maintenance (RelCare) - Secured Service Level Agreement with Customer
Underground Substation - Presently bidding for an Engineering Consultancy Services in Collaboration with global center
of excellence
Flexible AC Transmission System - Localization of components and solutions

2. The benefits derived as a result of technology absorption:
• Securing and enhancing market offerings
• Improved market penetration of various products
• Improving product margins
• Reducing quality issues and cost of poor quality
• Fulfilling customer and market special requirements
• Cost effective engineering and solutions to customers
• Avoiding outages in power system, grid and operation
• New applications for utilities, industries, infrastructure and transport segments
• Improved customer satisfaction and possibility of better market penetration
• Supporting country initiative, localization and local opportunities
• Making power equipment, devices, systems and operation cyber secure

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

3. Technologies imported during the last three years
imported during January - December 2020
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

800kV High Voltage Direct Current transformer manufacturing technology
Elliptical windings in 1-phase 500 MVA, 765 kV auto transformers
TXplore™ - transformer internal inspection robot that does not need oil removal from power transformer for inspection
Migrated all the Disconnector products documents in Product Lifecycle Management
New design and development of 420 kV current transformer
Asset Performance Management (APM) software application
Phasor measurement units for Wide Area Monitoring Systems
Railways electrical system protection relays
Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) - Broadband Fiber optic communication thermal equipment with management
software
Latest High Voltage Direct Current valves, control and protection
Ultra-High voltage Direct Current (UHVDC) transformer, bushing and DC yard equipment
Prefabricated substation design
Electric bus changing system (Grid-eMotion™ Flash) - Design, equipment and accessories
Offshore wind power evacuation - engineering competency
Digital Substation concept and solutions
Data Centre design
Skid - mounted switchgear solution concept and solutions
Reliability centered maintenance concept and tool for substations
Underground substation concepts and design

All technologies are fully absorbed.
4. The expenditure incurred on Research and Development:
Sl No.

Information Type

January - December 2020

1

Expenditure on R&D and above product
development/innovation

Expenditure on R&D and above product development/ innovation: The R&D, product
development and innovation activities are part of global R&D, funded and owned by
Hitachi ABB Power Grids global. Hence not reported here.

C. Foreign exchange earnings and outgo
Total foreign exchange used and earned
						

(Amount in ` crores)
2020

2019

Foreign Exchange earned

616

531

Foreign Exchange used

934

643

		
		

For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

		
Bengaluru
February 26, 2021

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

73

74

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Annexure - D to Boards’ Report
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES (CSR) ACTIVITIES
1.

Brief outline on CSR policy of the Company:
CSR policy
The Company views corporate social responsibility as a channel to further its cause of “bringing power to all by shaping
the future of sustainable energy”. The Company is committed to sustainable and inclusive development of the community’s
social capital through active engagement.
Following are key areas for Company’s CSR intervention:
Promote gender equality and empowering of women in engineering workforce
To promote gender equality by ensuring initiatives to empower/advancement of women and in the engineering workforce,
thereby increasing diversity and inclusion.
Endorse education, employability & healthcare
To promote gender equality by ensuring initiatives to empower/advancement of women and in the engineering workforce,
thereby increasing diversity and inclusion.
Endorse education, employability & healthcare
To create necessary infrastructure and resources to enable promotion of primary education among children and impart
vocational skills training to the youth, promoting health care including preventive health care.
Social impact projects
To collaborate with communities to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access to electricity in the country,
especially in rural areas for its development.
Support national disaster management and other government initiatives
To actively support national disaster management including relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities and
support in other initiatives for promoting including preventive measures for health care systems, hygiene and
sanitation.
Aid in sustainable development goals
To promote an ecosystem for sustainable development goals by encouraging usage of indigenous innovative and
sustainable solutions by aiding, development, promoting, facilitating and undertaking testing of new frontiers of
science, technology, engineering, and environment in partnership with like minded institutions, incubators and
sponsors.
The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy is available at the following link:
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance-policies

2.

Composition of the CSR Committee

Sl.
No.

Name of Director

Designation / Nature of
Directorship

Number of meetings of CSR
Committee held during the year

Number of meetings of CSR
Committee attended during the year

1

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Chairperson Independent Director

4

4

2

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma

Member Non-Executive Director

4

4

3

Mr. Venu Nuguri

Member Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer

4

4

At the meeting of the Board of Directors held on February 26, 2021, Mr. Achim Michael Braun was inducted as Member of the
CSR Committee in place of Mr. Sanjeev Sharma consequent to the reconstitution of the Board.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

3.

75

Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are
disclosed on the website of the Company.

Composition of CSR committee

https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/board-of-directors

CSR Policy

https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance-policies

CSR projects approved by the board

https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-social-responsibility-csr

4.

Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies
(Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report).
Not applicable

5.

Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social
responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any
Not applicable

6.

Average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)

Your Company was incorporated in February 19, 2019. The average net profit for FY 2020 was to be derived from FY 2019
net profit. The net profit was ` 220.99 crores for computation of CSR amount.
7.

(a) Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5): ` 44,198,000/- for FY 2020
(b) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: NIL
(c) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: NIL
(d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b+7c): ` 44,198,000/- for FY 2020

8.

(a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:

Total Amount Spent
for the Financial Year
(in `)
` 10,814,512/-

Amount Unspent (in `)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR
Account as per section 135(6)

Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as per
second proviso to section 135(5)

Amount

Date of transfer

` 33,200,000/Balance amount of
` 183,488/- amount will
be transferred in due
course

29 January, 2021
NA
Balance amount of
` 183,488/- amount will
be transferred in due
course

Name of the Fund

Amount

Date of transfer

NIL

NA

(b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
1

2

Sl. Name
No of the
Project

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

Item from
the list of
activities in
schedule VII
to the Act

Local
area
(Yes/
No)

Location
of the project

Project
duration.

Amount
allocated
for the
project
(in `)

Amount spent
in the current
financial
Year (in `)

Amount
Mode of Mode of Implem
transferred
Implem
entation - Through
to Unspent
entation - Implem enting Agency
CSR
Direct
Account for
(Yes/No)
the project
as per
Section 135(6)
(in `)*

State

District

10

11

Name

CSR
Regist
ration
no

1

PM Cares fund

Health Care

No

Central

NA

One time

6,184,358/-

6,184,358/-

NIL

Yes

NA

NA

2

Distributing food
kits, containing
some essential
grocery items,
for COVID-19
situation.

Nutrition,
Primary
Healthcare

Yes

Karnataka
Gujarat

Mysuru
Vadodara

One time

2,468,972/-

168,972/-

2,300,000/-

Yes

NA

NA

3

Face shields for
Police

Health Care

Yes

Karnataka

Bengaluru

One time

141,600/-

141,600/-

NIL

Yes

NA

NA

4

Greening of traffic
circles

Environment
sustainability

Yes

Gujarat

Vadodara

12 months 399,612/-

399,612/-

NIL

No

Vadodara
Municipal
Corporation,
Vadodara

NA

76

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

5 Ambulance Service
by Sevatirth

Primary
Healthcare

Yes

Gujarat

Vadodara

12 months

1,620,000/-

1,620,000/-

NIL

No

Society for the
Training and
Vocational
Rehabilitation
of the Disabled,
Vadodara

NA

6 Smart Electric Grid Laboratory for quality
education and skill
development at NITWarrangal

Enhancing
vocational skills
& ensuring
Environmental
sustainability

No

Telangana

Warrangal 12 months

8,000,000/-

2,300,000/-

5,700,000

Yes

NA

NA

7

Sustainable Public
Mobility - Piloting
societal adaptation
of clean energy in
public mobility at
IIT- Madras

Enhancing
vocational skills
& ensuring
Environmental
sustainability

Yes

Tamil Nadu

Chennai

10 months

11,500,000/- NIL

11,500,000/-

Yes

NA

NA

8 Greener Smart
City - Connecting
industry, innovation
and infrastructure at
IIT- Roorkee

Enhancing
vocational skills
& ensuring
Environmental
sustainability

No

Uttarakhand Hardwar

10 months

5,000,000/-

NIL

5,000,000/-

Yes

NA

NA

9

Promoting
Gender
equality,
education
&empowering
women

Yes

Karnataka
Gujarat
Tamil Nadu

Bengaluru 12 months
& Mysuru
Vadodara
Chennai

4,000,000/-

NIL

4,000,000/-

No

Sikshana
Foundation,
Bengaluru

NA

Health Care

Yes

Karnataka

Bengaluru 12 months

4,700,000/-

NIL

4,700,000/-

No

Centre for
Cellular and
Molecular
Plafrorm
(C-CAMP),
Bengaluru

NA

Empowering
Women in
Manufacturing &
Engineering

10 COVID-19
Innovations
Deployment at
C-CAMP (Center
for Cellular
and Molecular
Platforms)

* Voluntarily transferred

(c)

Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year: NIL

(d) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: NIL
(e)

Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Not applicable

(f)

Total amount spent for the financial year (8b+8c+8d+8e): ` 10,814,512/- (as on 31 December, 2020)

(g)

Excess amount for set off, if any

Sl.
No.

Particular

Amount (in `)

(i)

Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)

` 44,198,000/- for FY 2020

(ii)

Total amount spent for the financial year

` 10,814,512/- (as on 31 Dec 2020)

(iii)

Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]

NA

(iv)

Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, if any

NA

(v)

Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]

NA

9.

(a) Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:

Sl.
No.

Preceding
Financial Year

Amount transferred to Unspent Amount spent in the
Amount transferred to any fund
CSR Account under section
reporting Financial Year specified under Schedule VII as
135 (6) (in `)
(in `)
per section 135(6), if any.
Name of
the Fund

Amount
(in `)

Date of
transfer

Amount remaining to
be spent in succeeding
Financial Years (in `)

1

FY 2019

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

2

FY 2020

` 33,200,000/` 183,488/-

` 10,814,512/(as on 31 Dec 2020)

NA

NA

NA

` 33,383,488/-

Total

` 33,383,488/-

` 10,814,512/-

NA

NA

NA

` 33,383,488/-

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

77

(b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s): NA
1

6

7

8

9

Project ID

Name of the
Project

Financial Year Project
in which the
duration
project was
commenced

Total amount
allocated for
the project
(in `)

Amount spent
on the project
in the reporting
Financial Year
(in `)

Cumulative
amount spent
at the end of
reporting Financial
Year (in `)

Status of
the project Completed /
Ongoing

1

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

2

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

3

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

TOTAL

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Sl.
No.

2

3

4

5

10. In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through
CSR spent in the financial year. (asset-wise details).
(a)

Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s).: NA

(b) Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset.: NIL
(c)

Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address
etc.: NA

(d) Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the capital asset): NA
11. Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5).
Due to COVID-19 pandemic situation, few beneficiaries were not operating and accessible therefore, your Company was
unable to spend 100 percent earmarked amount. Your Company has earmarked projects which are active (as listed in
Sl # 8 (b)) and will make efforts to spend the unspent amount of ` 33,383,488/- in FY 2021. This unspent amount
` 33,383,488/- has been already transferred/will be transferred to the dedicated CSR Bank account. The implementation
and monitoring of CSR Policy is in compliance with CSR objectives and policy of the Company.

For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Venu Nuguri
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
(DIN:07032076)
Bengaluru
February 26, 2021

Akila Krishnakumar
Chairperson – CSR Committee
(DIN:06629992)

78

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Annexure - E to Boards’ Report
FORM AOC-2
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred to in
sub-section (1) of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso thereto
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014).
Details of contract entered into with related parties during financial year 2020.
1.

Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis:There were no contracts or arrangements or transactions entered into during the financial year ended December 31, 2020,
which were not arm’s length basis.

2.

Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:

a

Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship

b

Nature of contracts/arrangements/transactions

c

Duration of the contracts/arrangements/transactions

d

Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions
including the value, if any.

Given below details of transactions entered into at arm’s length but not
in the ordinary course of business

Related Party Transactions (RPT) between ABB India Limited and ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited.
(Amount in ` crores)
Nature of RPT

Board meeting date

Duration
in month

Total

Financial Years
2020

2021

2022

2023

Lease of own property
- office

Feb 28, 2020

4

0.37

0.37

-

-

-

Guest house services

Feb 28, 2020

4

0.45

0.45

-

-

-

Maneja lease & power
services agreement

June 26, 2020

6

6.88

6.88

-

-

-

Peenya lease & power
services agreement

June 26, 2020

6

1.32

1.32

-

-

-

Faridabad lease
agreement

June 26, 2020

6

0.56

0.56

-

-

-

Treasury services
IS services

June 26, 2020

6

0.60

0.60

-

-

-

August 12, 2020

36

56.28

9.38

18.76

18.76

9.38

Treasury services

August 12, 2020

3

0.05

0.05

-

-

-

Joint protocol agreement

August 12, 2020

7

-

-

-

-

-

Transfer of IT assets

June 26, 2020

NA

0.85

0.85

-

-

-

Transfer of Microgrid

June 26, 2020

NA

3.35

3.35

-

-

-

August 12, 2020

NA

Purchase of used furniture
Total

2.30

2.30

-

-

-

73.01

26.11

18.76

18.76

9.38

Related Party Transactions between ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited and ABB India Limited.
(Amount in ` crores)
Nature of RPT

Board meeting date

Duration in month

Total

Financial Years
2020

Maneja lease agreement
Total

June 26, 2020

6

0.49

0.49

0.49

0.49

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

79

Related Party Transactions (RPT) between ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited and ABB Power Products and
Systems India Limited.
(Amount in ` crores)
Financial Years

Nature of RPT

Board meeting
date

Duration in
Months

Total

FY 20

FY 21

FY 22

FY 23

IS services

August 12, 2020

36

24.90

4.15

8.30

8.30

4.15

-

24.90

4.15

8.30

8.30

4.15

Total

Related Party Transactions (RPT) between ABB Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland and ABB Power Products and
Systems India Limited
(Amount in ` crores)
Nature of RPT

Board meeting
date

Financial Years

Duration in
Months

Total

FY 20

FY 21

FY 22

FY 23

IS services (Applications)

August 12, 2020

36

71.10

11.85

23.70

23.70

11.85

IS services (AMEX)

August 12, 2020

9

0.05

0.03

0.02

-

-

-

71.15

11.88

23.72

23.70

11.85

Total

Related Party Transactions (RPT) between ABB PG Power Grids Ltd and ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
(Amount in ` crores)
Financial Years

Nature of RPT

Board meeting
date

Duration in
Months

Total

FY 20

FY 21

FY 22

FY 23

IS services

August 12, 2020

42

158.31

21.08

44.27

46.48

46.48

42

158.31

21.08

44.27

46.48

46.48

Total

Related Party Transactions (RPT) between ABB Switzerland Ltd. and ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
(Amount in ` crores)
Nature of RPT

Date of board meeting

Financial year
FY 2020

Reimbursement of expense relating to open offer

November 10, 2020

0.19

Total

0.19

e

Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any:

Dates are provided above against the respective agreements

f

Amount paid as advances, if any:

NIL

Note:
The related party transactions with ABB India Limited and other related parties which are not in the “ordinary course of business”,
were necessitated consequent to Demerger of Power Grids Business during the year 2019/2020.
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Achim Michael Braun
Bengaluru

Chairman

February 26, 2021

DIN: 08596097

80

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Annexure - G to Boards’ Report
Report on Corporate Governance
1.

Company’s Philosophy on Code of Governance
The Company is committed to good Corporate Governance. The Company fully realises the rights of its shareholders to
information on the performance of the Company and considers itself a trustee of its shareholders. The Company is providing
detailed information on various issues concerning the Company’s business and financial performance to its shareholders.
The basic philosophy of Corporate Governance in the Company is to achieve business excellence and dedicate itself for
increasing long-term shareholder value, keeping in view the needs and interests of all its stake holders. The Company is
committed to transparency in all its dealings and places emphasis on business ethics.

2.

Board of Directors
The Board of Directors consists of 6 Directors viz., three Independent and three Non-Independent, out of which two
Independent Directors are women Directors. Out of the three Non-Independent Directors, one is a Managing Director, and
which is in conformity with the requirement of Regulation 17 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations). The Chairman of the Board is a Non-Executive and
Non-Independent Director.
Except the Managing Director and Independent Directors, remaining two Non-Executive Directors are liable to retire by
rotation. In the ensuing Annual General Meeting, two Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director are being proposed
for regularization of their appointment. Both of them were appointed wef February 25, 2021 and are nominees of Promoter
group. There is no relationship between the Directors inter-se during the period under review, other than payment of sitting
fees, and reimbursement of expenses incurred by them for the purpose of attending meetings of the Company. Mr. Mukesh
Butani, Ms. Akila Krishnakumar and Ms. Nishi Vasudeva, Independent Directors have been appointed for a period of three
years, w.e.f. December 24, 2019 and upto December 23, 2022.
i)

Composition / Category of Directors / Attendance at Meetings / Directorships and Committee Memberships in other
companies as on December 31,2020.

Name of the Director

Category(1)

Attendance

Kind of Directorship

Board
Board
Last AGM
Chairman Director
Meetings
Meetings attendance
held during Attended
2020

Mr. Frank Duggan
(Chairman) A

NED

Mr. Venu NuguriB

Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer

Member

Chairman

5

Yes

0

0

0

0

5

Yes

0

0

2

0

4

Yes

0

1

1

0

Mr. Mukesh ButaniD

NED (I)

5

Yes

0

0

2

1

Ms. Akila KrishnakumarE

NED (I)

5

Yes

0

4

6

2

Ms. Nishi VasudevaF

NED (I)

5

Yes

0

5

8

2

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma

C

NED

5

Directorship in other Committee
membership/
public companies (2)
Chairmanship
in Public Companies(3)

1)

Category : NED - Non - Executive Director, MD - Managing Director, NED (I) - Non - Executive Director and Independent.

2)

Includes directorships in public limited companies, whether listed or not and excludes directorships in and all other companies
including private limited companies, foreign companies and companies under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013. None of the
Directors of the Company hold Independent Directorships in more than 7 listed companies.

3)

No director shall hold office as a director in more than 10 public companies. No director of the Company shall serve on more than
10 committees or can act as chairman of more than five committees across all Indian public limited companies in which he / she
is a Director. For the purpose of this limitation, membership and chairmanship of the Audit committee and Stakeholders Relationship
committee are only considered including that of ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited. No Independent Director shall
serve as Independent Director in more than seven listed companies or three listed companies in case he / she is a whole-time
director in any listed company.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

A

Appointed as Director and Chairman of the Board w.e.f. December 24, 2019 and resigned w.e.f. February 25, 2021.

B

Appointed as Director and Managing Director w.e.f. December 2, 2019.
Appointed as Director w.e.f. February 19, 2019 and resigned w.e.f. February 25, 2021.

C

D, E

and

F

Appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. December 24, 2019.

NOTE: All Independent Directors fulfil the requirements stipulated in Regulation 25(1) of the Listing Regulations.
ii)

None of the directors are related to each other within the meaning of the term “Relative” as per Section 2(77) of the
Companies Act, 2013.

iii)

No. of Board Meetings held in the financial year 2020 and dates on which held.
The Board has held 5 meetings during the financial year 2020 i .e., on February 28, 2020, April 30, 2020, June 26,
2020, August 12, 2020 and November 10, 2020.

iv)

None of the Directors hold equity shares or convertible instruments in the Company.

v)

The Independent Directors, who are from diverse fields of expertise and have long standing experience and expert
knowledge in their respective fields are very relevant as well as of considerable value for the Company’s business.
As the Board was re-constituted on December 24, 2019, the familiarization programme was organised in FY 2020
and details are available on the website at : https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/boardof-directors

vi)

A letter of appointment encompassing the terms and conditions of appointment, roles, duties and liabilities have been
issued to the Independent Directors. The terms and conditions of appointment of the Independent Directors are
disclosed in the Company’s website at : https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/board-ofdirectors

vii) During the financial year, a separate meeting of the Independent Directors was held on December 14, 2020.
viii) The periodical review by Board of Statutory reports was carried out. During the financial year the Board periodically
reviewed the compliance reports that were submitted by the management in respect of all laws applicable to the Company.

3.

ix)

Subsequent to the transfer of 75 percent equity shares on February 05, 2021 from ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited
to ABB Ltd., to Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd., the Board of Directors was reconstituted w.e.f. February 25, 2021.
Mr. Frank Duggan, Chairman and Director and Mr. Sanjeev Sharma, Director resigned w.e.f. February 25, 2021.
Mr. Achim Michael Braun and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka were appointed as Chairman and Director and Director
respectively. All the committees of the Company except Audit committee were reconstituted w.e.f. February 26, 2021.

x)

Independent Directors of the Company have provided declarations as required under the Companies Act, 2013 and
listing regulations. The Board has noted the said declarations and opinion that all Independent Directors fulfill the
conditions of independence and are independent of the management of the Company.

Audit Committee
i)

Terms of reference

The Audit Committee acts on the terms of reference given by the Board pursuant to Section 177 of the Act and Regulation
18 of the Listing Regulations.
The terms of reference are briefly described below:
•
•
•

Over sight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that
the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible;
Recommending the Board, appointment, re-appointment, replacement or removal (in the event of necessity) of
Statutory Auditors, Cost Auditors, Secretarial Auditors and/or any other auditors including fixation of remuneration;
Approval of payment to Statutory Auditors for any other services rendered by the Statutory Auditors;

81

82

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

•

Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval, with
particular reference to;
a) Matters required to be included in the Director’s Responsibility Statement to be included in the Board’s report
in terms of sub - section (5) of Section 134 of the Act;
b) Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same;
c) Major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management;
d) Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings;
e) Compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements;
f)
Disclosure of any related party transactions; and
g) Qualifications in the draft audit report.

•

Reviewing, with the management:
–
The quarterly financial statements before submission to the Board for approval;
–
Performance of Auditors, Internal Auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems;
Review and monitor the auditor’s independence and performance and effectiveness of audit process;
Review the adequacy of Internal Audit function including the structure of the internal audit department, staffing and
seniority of the head of the department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit;
Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the Company with the related parties;
Approval on appointment of Chief Financial Officer including the Whole time Director - Finance or any other person
heading the finance function or discharging that function after assessing the qualification, experience and background
etc., of such incumbent;
Reviewing the proposal for discontinuation / closure of any of the business operations of the Company;
Scrutiny of inter - corporate loans and investments;
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary;
Monitoring the end use of funds raised through public offers and related matters;
Review proposal for mergers, demergers, acquisitions, carve-outs, sale, transfer of business and its valuation report
and fairness opinion, if any, thereof;
Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems;
Discussing with internal auditors any significant findings and follow up there on;
Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where there is suspected
fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the matter to the Board;
Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as post
- audit discussion to as certain any area of concern;
To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders
(in case of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors;
Review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism.
Carry out such other function as may be delegated by the Board from time to time.
Review various investment proposals before the same is submitted to the Board of Directors and also to review the
guidelines for investing surplus funds of theCompany;
To appoint valuers for the valuation of the undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary including
stocks, shares, securities, good will or any other assets or net worth of a Company or liability of the Company under
the provisions of the Act.

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

In addition to the above, the following items will be reviewed by the Audit Committee:
•
•
•
•
•

Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations;
Statement of significant related party transactions, (as defined by the Audit Committee) submitted by management;
Management letters/letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors;
Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses ; and
Appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor.

The Audit Committee is vested with the necessary powers to achieve its objectives.
The Committee has discharged such other role/function as envisaged under Regulation 18 (3) read with Part C of Schedule
II of the Listing Regulations and the provisions of Section 177 of the Act. The Chairman of the Audit Committee was present
at the previous AGM (1st AGM held on August 13, 2020).

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ii)

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Composition, name of members & Chairperson, meetings held during the financial year and attendance at
meetings.
The Audit Committee presently consists of three Independent Directors and one Executive Director (Managing
Director). The Committee was constituted on December 24, 2019 and had 5 meetings during the financial year on
February 27, 2020, April 30, 2020, June 26, 2020, August 12, 2020 and November 10, 2020. The composition of the
Audit Committee as on December 31, 2020 and the attendance of members at the meetings held during the financial
year 2020 were as follows:
Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Mr. Mukesh Butani (Chairman) (Independent Director)

5

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (Independent Director)

5

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (Independent Director)

5

Mr. Venu Nuguri

5

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to the
Audit Committee.
4.

Nomination and Remuneration Committee
i)

Terms of reference
The terms of reference and role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee are as per the provisions of Section
178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations which includes formulating the criteria to:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Determine qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and recommend to the Board a
policy, relating to the remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel and other employees;
Evaluation of Independent Directors and the Board;
Devising a policy on Board diversity;
Identifying persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management in
accordance with the criteria laid down and recommend to the Board their appointment and removal.
Recommending to the Board on remuneration, Performance Bonus etc., payable to the Executive Director(s) /
Managing Director, Commission payable to Independent Directors.
The policy has been approved by Board of Directors on December 24, 2019 and by Nomination and Remuneration
Committee in the meeting held on February 27, 2020.

The terms and conditions of appointment are disclosed in the website of the Company at https://www.hitachiabbpowergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/board-of-directors
ii)

Composition, name of members & Chairperson, meetings held during the financial year and attendance at
meetings.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee presently consists of three Non-Executive Directors, two being
independent. The Chairman is a Non-Executive and Independent Director. The Committee was constituted on
December 24, 2019 and 2 meetings were held during the financial year under review on February 27, 2020 and
December 14, 2020. The composition of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee as on December 31, 2020 and
the attendance of members at the meeting held during the financial year 2020 were as follows:
Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (Chairperson) (Independent Director)

2

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (Independent Director)

2

Mr. Frank Duggan (Non-Executive and Non-Independent)

2

The committee has been reconstituted on February 26, 2021 consequent to the resignation of Mr. Frank Duggan and
appointment of Mr. Achim Michael Braun.

83

84

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

iii)

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Remuneration Policy / Criteria for payments to Directors / Senior Management Employees
The Company has a credible and transparent policy in determining and accounting for the remuneration of the
Executive / Non-Executive Independent Directors. Independent Directors’ remuneration is governed by the external
competitive environment, track record of the individuals, effective participation in the meetings, comparable industry
standards and performance of the Company. The remuneration determined for the Executive / Independent Directors
is subject to the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approval of the Board of
Directors. The Board of Directors based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
has adopted the performance review criteria. Subsequent to the close of the year under review, the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors have reviewed the performance of Directors.
The Non-Executive Independent Directors are compensated by way of commission for FY 2020 in FY 2021 and the
criteria being their attendance in the Board / Committee Meetings, apart from sitting fees and reimbursement of other
expenses.
As per policy, the Non - Executive - Non - Independent Directors are neither paid sitting fee nor paid any commission.
The Independent Directors are entitled to sitting fees for attending the Board / Committee Meetings. Sitting fees for
Board and Audit Committee Meetings is ` 20,000/- per Director per meeting and for other Committees the sitting
fees is ` 10,000/- per Director per meeting.
The remuneration payable to the Managing Director and Senior Management personnel including KMP are structured
as fixed and variable components. The fixed remuneration comprises salaries, perquisites and retirement benefits
and the variable component comprises annual performance bonus which is linked to the achievement of the score
card fixed at the beginning of the year.

5.

Details of remuneration to all the Directors paid during the financial year 2020
(Amount in ` lakhs)
Name

Sitting Fees**

Salary &
Perquisites

Mr. Frank Duggan (Chairman)A
Mr. Venu NuguriB
Mr. Sanjeev SharmaC
Mr. Mukesh ButaniD
Ms. Akila KrishnakumarE
Ms. Nishi VasudevaF

2.70
3.10
2.90

291.10*@
-

Commission
***
-

39.00
34.00
37.00

Stock Option

Pension

-

-

*Includes performance bonus for FY 2019
The Board of Directors at their meeting held on February 08, 2021 based on the recommendation of the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee has approved an increase in remuneration of ` 49,52,838 per annum of Mr. Venu, Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer w.e.f. March 01, 2020. The increase that was due was not effected in the past given the COVID-19 situation.
The same will be paid during financial year 2021.
@

**

Sitting fees for Board and committee meetings held in FY 2020 paid in FY 2020 or in FY 2021

***

Commission payable for FY 2020 and will be paid in FY 2021

A

Appointed as Director and Chairman of the Board w.e.f. December 24, 2019

B

Appointed as Director and Managing Director w.e.f. December 2, 2019
Appointed as Director w.e.f. February 19, 2019

C
D

, E and F

Appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. December 24, 2019

Commission to Independent Directors : Effective FY 2020.
1.
2.
3.

For Board Meetings: a fixed amount of ` 25 lakhs per Independent Director based on 100 percent participation by
way of attendance in the meetings.
For Committee Meetings: a fixed amount of ` 3 lakhs per Independent Director based on 100 percent participation
by way of attendance in the meetings.
For Chairman of the Audit Committee: a fixed amount of ` 8 lakhs for 100 percent participation by way of attendance
in the meetings.

The above commission payable to Independent Directors of the Company however shall not exceed in the aggregate
1 percent per annum of the net profits of the Company computed in the manner laid down in the Act.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Fixed Component / Performance Linked Incentive / Criteria
Performance related Bonus is payable to the Managing Director only as per the terms of Contract entered into between
the Company and the Managing Director.
Service Contract / Notice Period / Severance Fees
a

The Contract of Service entered into by the Company with Mr. Venu Nuguri, Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer, provides that the Company and the Managing Director shall be entitled to terminate the agreement by giving
six months’ notice in writing on either side.

b

No severance fee is payable by the Company to the Managing Director on termination of the agreement.

Stock Option
The Company does not have stock option scheme therefore the same is not applicable. No Director holds any Equity
shares of the Company. None of the Non-Executive Directors have any pecuniary relationship or transactions with the
Company.
Performance Evaluation of Directors
The performance Evaluation of Directors as required under the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI LODR for FY 2020 was
undertaken during FY 2021.
6.

Stakeholders Relationship Committee
The said Committee has been authorized to approve the transfer / transmission / transposition / demat / remat of shares/
deletion of name and issue of duplicate share certificates and taking note of Members’ grievances.
Following are the terms of reference of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee:
1.

2.
3.
4.

Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the listed entity including complaints related to transfer /
transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new / duplicate
certificates, general meetings etc.
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.
Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the listed entity in respect of various services being
rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants / annual reports / statutory notices by the shareholders of
the Company.

The Stakeholders Relationship Committee shall discharge such other role / function as prescribed by the Board of
Directors and / or envisaged under Regulation 20 read with Part D of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations and the
provisions of Section 178 of the Act.
In order to expedite the process, the Board of Directors has also delegated the authority to the Company Secretary to
approve the transfer / transmission / transposition of shares / remat / demat / deletion of name, issue of duplicate shares
requests as and when required from time to time.
3 meetings were held during this financial year on February 27, 2020, August 12, 2020 and November 10, 2020.
The Committee is chaired by Ms. Nishi Vasudeva – Independent Director. Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, Company Secretary
and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to the Committee.
The composition of Stakeholders Relationship Committee as at December 31, 2020 and attendance of members at the
meetings held during the financial year 2020 were as follows :

85

86

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (Chairperson) (Independent Director)

3

Mr. Mukesh Butani (Independent Director)

3

Mr. Venu Nuguri (Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer)

3

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka, Director has been inducted into the Committee as Member w.e.f. February 26, 2021 consequent to
the reconstitution of the Board.
There were no investor queries / investor grievances pending during the year under review. Continuous efforts are made to
ensure that grievances are more expeditiously redressed to the complete satisfaction of the investors.
The details of investors’ complaints received and resolved during the financial year 2020 are as under:

7.

No. of investors’ complaints received
during 2020

No. of investors’ complaints resolved during
2020

Investors’ complaints pending at the end of
2020

436

436

NIL

Risk Management
The Company has in place a mechanism to inform Board Members about the risk assessment and minimization procedures
and review to ensure that executive management controls risks by means of a properly defined frame work. The Company
has formulated a Policy on Risk Management and constituted a Risk Management Committee. The Board of Directors has
adopted the policy in Board meeting held on December 24, 2019. The Risk Management committee has taken note of the
policy in the meeting held on February 27, 2020.
During the financial year, one meeting was held on February 27, 2020.
The Committee is chaired by Mr. Mukesh Butani – Independent Director. Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, Company Secretary
is the Secretary to the Risk Management Committee.
The composition of the Risk Management Committee as on December 31, 2020 was as follows:
Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Mr. Mukesh Butani (Independent Director)

1

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (Independent Director)

1

Mr. Frank Duggan (Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director)*

1

Mr. Venu Nuguri (Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer)

1

Mr. Ajay Singh (Chief Financial Officer)

1

*The Risk Management Committee was re-constituted by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on February 26, 2021
by inducting Mr. Achim Michael Braun in place of Mr. Frank Duggan as member of the Committee consequent to the change
in Board of Directors.

8.

Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Pursuant to Section 135 of the Act, a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee of the Board has been constituted.
During the financial year, 4 meetings were held on February 27, 2020, April 30, 2020, August 12, 2020 and November 10, 2020
The Committee is chaired by Ms. Akila Krishnakumar - Independent Director. The composition of Committee as at
December 31, 2020 and attendance of members at the meetings held during the financial year 2020 were as follows:
Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (Chairperson) (Independent Director)

4

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma*

4

Mr. Venu Nuguri

4

* The Committee was re-constituted by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on February 26, 2021 by inducting Mr. Achim
Michael Braun in place of Mr. Sanjeev Sharma as member of the Committee consequent to the change in Board of Directors.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

The Company has formulated a Policy for its CSR and also identified the following key areas for undertaking CSR
activities#:
•
		

Promote gender equality and empowering of women in engineering work force
To promote gender equality by ensuring initiatives to empower / advancement of women and in the engineering work
force, thereby increasing diversity and inclusion.

•

Endorse education, employability & health care
To create necessary infrastructure and resources to enable promotion of primary education among children and
impart vocational skills training to the youth, promoting health care including preventive health care.

•

Social impact projects
To collaborate with communities to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access to electricity in the country,
especially in rural areas for its development.

•

Support national disaster management and other government initiatives
To actively support national disaster management including relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities and
support in other initiatives for promoting, including preventive measures for health care systems, hygiene and sanitation.

•

Aid in sustainable development goals
To promote an ecosystem for sustainable development goals by encouraging usage of indigenous, innovative and
sustainable solutions by aiding, development, promoting, facilitating and undertaking testing of new frontiers of science,
technology, engineering, and environment in partnership with like-minded institutions, incubators and sponsors.
# The CSR policy was revised at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on April 30, 2020 and November 10, 2020.

The Company’s CSR policy may be viewed in the Company’s website at :
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance-policies
Further details on CSR expenditure and projects are provided in the Annexure to Directors Report.
9.

Subsidiary Company
The Company did not have any subsidiary during the period under review.
Policy for material subsidiary:
The policy for material subsidiary can be viewed at: https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/
corporate-governance-policies

10. Managing Director (MD) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) certification
As required under Regulation 17 read with Part B of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations, the MD and CFO certification
on the Financial Statements, the Cash Flow Statement and the Internal Control Systems for financial reporting has been
obtained from Mr. Venu Nuguri, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Ajay Singh, Chief Financial Officer.
The said certificate is annexed as Annexure 1 to this report.
11. General Body Meetings
a.
		
i)

ii)
		

General Meeting
Since the Company was incorporated only on February 19, 2019, the details of first AGM held last year is as follows:
Location and time where last three Annual General Meetings (AGMs) wereheld.
For the Year

Venue

Day & Date

Time

2019

VC and OAVM and Regd office

Thursday, August 13, 2020

11:00 am

2018

NA

NA

NA

2017

NA

NA

NA

Extraordinary General Meeting
No extraordinary general meeting was held during the financial year under review.

87

88

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

iii) Special Resolution passed in the previous three Annual General Meetings
		
No special resolution was passed in the last AGM. The Company was incorporated on February 19, 2019 and during
last year first Annual General Meeting of the Company was held.
b.

Postal Ballot
During the financial year ended December 31, 2020, the Company has conducted one Postal ballot from May 12,
2020 to June 10, 2020 vide notice of Postal ballot dated April 30, 2020 to seek approval of Members for following
Special businesses (through ordinary resolution):
Appointment of Mr. Frank Duggan (DIN: 02937233) as a Director
Appointment of Mr. Mukesh Hari Butani (DIN: 01452839) as an Independent Director
Appointment of Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (DIN: 06629992) as an Independent Director
Appointment of Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) as an Independent Director
Appointment of Mr. Venu Nuguri (DIN:07032076) as a Director
Appointment of Mr. Venu Nuguri (DIN: 07032076) as Managing Director
Commission to the Non-Executive Independent Directors of the Company
Ratification of remuneration to the Cost Auditor of the Company for Financial period 2019
Approval of remuneration to the Cost Auditor of the Company for financial year 2020
Mr. S Kannan, (Membership No. FCS 6261 / CP No. PCS 13016), Practicing Company Secretary was appointed
as the Scrutinizer for conducting the Postal Ballot through remote e-voting process in a fair and transparent
manner and he submitted his report dated June 11, 2020 on June 11, 2020. The dispatch of Notices and
accompanying documents were completed on May 9, 2020 to all Members appearing in the records of the
Company as on May 8, 2020 (cut-off date).
Result of the postal ballot exercise was as follows:
Res. Resolution
No.

For
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9

Appointment of Mr. Frank Duggan (DIN: 02937233) as a Director
Appointment of Mr. Mukesh Hari Butani (DIN: 01452839) as an
Independent Director
Appointment of Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (DIN: 06629992) as an
Independent Director
Appointment of Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (DIN: 03016991) as an
Independent Director
Appointment of Mr. Venu Nuguri (DIN: 07032076) as a Director
Appointment of Mr. Venu Nuguri (DIN:07032076) as
Managing Director
Commission to the Non-Executive Independent Directors of the
Company
Ratification of remuneration to the Cost Auditor of the Company for
Financial period 2019
Approval of remuneration to the Cost Auditor of the Company for
Financial year 2020

Result

E-VOTING
Against

35,297,790

11,947

Passed with requisite majority

35,309,222

484

Passed with requisite majority

35,309,223

483

Passed with requisite majority

35,309,222

484

Passed with requisite majority

35,158,852

150,885

Passed with requisite majority

35,267,955

41,782

Passed with requisite majority

34,336,607

895,723

Passed with requisite majority

35,309,522

190

Passed with requisite majority

35,309,531

191

Passed with requisite majority

i.

Whether any special resolution is proposed to be conducted through postal ballot: Approval, if any required
through, Postal Ballot during the financial year 2021 will be conducted in accordance with applicable law.

		

Procedure for postal ballot: e-voting through the postal ballot was conducted in accordance with the
provisions contained in Section 110 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, read
with Rule 22 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014. The shareholders were
provided the facility to vote through e-voting. The postal ballot notice was sent to shareholders in electronic
form to the email addresses, where available. The Company was not required to send physical copy of postal
ballot notice due to circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India (the “MCA”)
vide General Circular No. 14/2020 dated April 8, 2020 read with General Circular No.17/2020 dated April 13,
2020 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India (the “MCA Circulars”), pertaining to
COVID-19 pandemic. The Company also published a notice in the newspapers in accordance with the
requirements under the Companies Act, 2013

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

12. Disclosures
i)

Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions.
There was no materially significant related party transaction during the financial year having potential conflict with
the interests of the Company. Transactions with related parties, as per requirements of Indian Accounting Standard
24, are disclosed in the notes to accounts annexed to the financial statements. Further the Company has not entered
into any transaction of a material nature with the Promoters, subsidiaries of Promoters, Directors or their relatives
etc. that may have potential conflict with the interests of the Company.
All the transactions with related parties were in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis, except
transactions, which are disclosed in the Boards’ Report. In terms of Regulation 23 of Listing Regulations, the Company
obtains prior approval of the Audit Committee for entering into any transaction with related parties.
Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions can be viewed in the Company’s website. Link for the same is:
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance-policies

ii)

Details of non-compliance by the Company, penalties and strictures imposed on the Company by the Stock Exchanges
or SEBI or any statutory authorities, on any matter related to capital markets during the last three years.
The Company was incorporated on February 19, 2019. Listing approval was secured and the equity shares of the
Company was listed on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited w.e.f. March 30, 2020. During
financial year 2020 no penalty nor any stricture has been passed by SEBI, Stock Exchanges or any other Statutory
Authority on matters relating to capital markets.

iii)

Whistle Blower Policy and affirmation that no personnel have been denied access to the Audit Committee.
The Company has adopted Whistle Blower Policy where it has a mechanism for directors and employees to report
concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Code of Conduct/ Business Ethics,
leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI) and related matters. No personnel have been denied access to
the Chairman of the Audit Committee, for making complaint on any Integrity issue. The Whistle Blower Policy can be
viewed in the Company’s website at https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en/investor-relations/corporategovernance-policies

iv)

Details of compliance with mandatory requirements and adoption of the non-mandatory requirements under the
Listing Regulations.
During the financial year 2020 the Company has fully complied with the mandatory requirements as stipulated in
Listing Regulations.
The Company has adopted item E as provided in Part E of Schedule II to the Listing Regulations which is a discretionary
requirement.

13. Means of Communication
Quarterly Financial Results / Official News Releases
The quarterly / half-yearly / annual financial results are published in Newspaper or released on official news releases as
may be required under the Listing Regulations and placing on the Company’s website at: https://www.hitachiabbpowergrids.com/in/en
The Company has a dedicated e-mail ID : in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@hitachi-powergrids.com for providing necessary
information / assistance to the investors.
In addition to the above, after announcement of results, the Company holds conference call with investors / analysts.
The transcript of the said conference call if any, is uploaded on the Company’s website at: https://www.hitachiabbpowergrids.com/in/en

89

90

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

14. General Shareholder Information
i)

Annual General Meeting Day, Date, Time and Venue:- Day: Thursday, Date: May 27, 2021, Time: 11:00 am
Venue: Video Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) including remote e-voting process.
Agenda proposed for 2nd Annual General Meeting:
Item No.1 – Adoption of Financial Statements and Reports of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon.
To receive, consider and adopt the financial statements, namely, (i) the Audited Balance Sheet as at December 31,
2020, (ii) the Audited Statement of Profit & Loss Account for the financial year ended December 31, 2020, (iii) the
Cash Flow Statement for the financial year ended December 31, 2020, (iv) statement of changes in Equity, if any,
(v) an Explanatory Note annexed to, or forming part of, the documents referred to in (i) to (iv) above and the Reports
of Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon.
Item No.2 – Declaration of dividend.
Item No.3 – Appointment of Mr. Achim Michael Braun (DIN: 08596097) as a Director.
Item No.4 – Appointment of Mr. Ismo Antero Haka (DIN: 08598862) as a Director.
Item No.5 – Approval of remuneration to the Cost Auditor of the Company for Financial period from January 01,
2021 to March 31, 2022.
Item No.6 – To borrow money in excess of prescribed limit as per Companies Act 2013.

ii)

Profile of Director seeking re-appointment.
The profile of Directors seeking regularization / appointment at the 2nd Annual General Meeting is given in the
annexure to the Notice convening the second Annual General Meeting. Said Directors are not related to any other
Director on the Board of the Company. Mr. Achim Michael Braun and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka are nominees of
promoters viz., Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd. Mr. Ismo Antero Haka and Mr. Achim Michael Braun are currently Chief
Financial Officer and Head of HR for Power Grids group globally respectively.

iii)

Financial Year
Company’s financial year is January - December. The Board of Directors at their meeting held on February 26, 2021
have approved the change of financial year from existing January-December to April-March and that the current
financial year will be from January 01, 2021-March 31, 2022 (15 months) and subsequent all financial years from
April-March (12 months) thereafter, due to the transfer of shares held by promoters-ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd.
to ABB Ltd and from ABB Ltd to Hitachi ABB Power Grids Ltd. and given that the financial year of Hitachi ABB
Power Grids Ltd., is April - March.
The Indicative calendar of events for the financial year 2021 (January 01, 2021 to March 31, 2022) is as follows:
Fourth Quarter Financial Results (Year 2020)

February 25, 2021 and February 26, 2021

Convening of 2nd AGM

May 27, 2021

First Quarter financial results

May, 2021

Second Quarter financial results

July, 2021

Third Quarter financial results

October, 2021

Fourth quarter financial results

February, 2022

In terms of the circular issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, as a Green Initiative and subsequent amendment to
the Listing Regulations, soft copy of the Notice and the Annual Report for the financial year 2020 would be circulated
to the respective e-mail IDs registered and available in Company’s records.
iv)

Date of Book Closure
The Company’s Register of Members and Share Transfer Books will remain closed for the purpose of Annual
General Meeting from May 21, 2021 to May 27, 2021 (both days inclusive).

v)

Dividend Payment Date
The dividend, as recommended by the Board of Directors, if declared at the ensuing Annual General Meeting will
be paid on and from May 31, 2021, to those Members whose names appear on the Company’s Register of Members
as on May 20, 2021.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

vi)

91

Listing on Stock Exchanges
The Company has received listing approval from BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited
(“NSE”) and 4,23,81,675 equity shares of the Company have been listed and trading commenced w.e.f. March 30,
2020 on BSE & NSE.
It may be noted that pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement (Demerger), the Equity shares in demat form were
automatically credited into Unclaimed shares account and Investors Education and Protection Fund Account and
the voting rights thereon have been frozen till the shares are claimed by the rightful owners.
Details are given below:
Shares credited to IEPF account : 1,07,421 Equity shares were allotted on December 24, 2019.
Shares credited to Unclaimed Suspense account on December 24, 2019:

vii)

Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the
suspense account lying at the beginning of the year.

799 Equity shares-6 shareholders

Number of shareholders who approached issuer for transfer of shares
from suspense account during the year.

NIL

Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from
suspense account during the year.

NIL

Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the
suspense account lying at the end of the year.

799 Equity shares-6 shareholders

Stock Code Equity Shares: NSE
POWERINDIA
BSE
543187
ISIN
INE07Y701011

viii)

Market Price Data
The market price data and volume of the Company’s shares traded in the BSE Limited and the National Stock
Exchange of India Limited, during the financial year 2020 were as follows:
Year 2020

APPSIL - BSE - `

BSE - SENSEX

APPSIL - NSE - `

NSE - NIFTY

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

January*

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

42,274

40477

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

12,431

11,930

February*

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

41,709

38,220

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

12,247

11,175

March*

750

714

39,083

25,639

750

680

11,433

7,511

April

830

780

33,887

27,501

818

781

9,889

8,056

May

851

790

32,845

29,968

833

789

9,599

8,807

June

858

815

35,707

32,348

858

817

10,553

9,544

July

926

837

38,617

34,927

925

837

11,341

10,300

August

1,100

861

40,010

36,911

1,100

866

11,794

10,882

September

980

879

39,360

36,496

975

892

11,618

10,790

October

1,020

896

41,048

38,410

1,020

896

12,025

11,347

November

1,173

906

44,825

39,335

1,180

905

13,146

11,557

December

1,400

11,50

47,897

44,118

1,400

1,146

14,025

12,963

*The Company’s shares were listed w.e.f. March 30, 2020.

92

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ix)

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Performance in comparison to broad-based indices such as BSE Sensex and NSE Nifty:

POWERINDIA Share Price movement v/s BSE Sensex
January – December 2020
60000

1293
1146

50000

40000

40723

38297

802

819

714

30000

33718

32424

842
34916

897

917

925

37607

38628

38068

963

1200
47751

44150
39614

1000
800
600

29468

20000

400

10000

0

1400

200

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

BSE-Sensex

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

0

POWERINDIA Share Price

POWERINDIA Share Price movement v/s NSE Nifty
January – December 2020
1600

16000

13982

14000

12969
11962

12000

11202
9860

10000

9580

10302

8598

8000

749.7

801

817

840

11073

11388

11248

897

917

924

11642

1400
1293

1140

1000
964

800
600

6000

400

4000

200

2000

100

0

0
Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May
NSE-Nifty

x)

1200

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

POWERINDIA Share price

Registrar and Share Transfer Agents
KFin Technologies Private Limited (Unit: ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Serilingampally Mandal,
Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana.
Phone No. +91 40 6716 2222, Fax No. +91 40 2342 0814
e-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: www.kfintech.com

xi)

Share Transfer System
As per Regulation 40 of SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, securities of listed companies can be transferred
only in dematerialized form with effect from April 1, 2019, except in case of request received for transmission or
transposition of securities. Hence, the Members holding shares in physical form are requested to consider converting
their holdings in the dematerialized form. The Members who are desirous to convert their physical holdings into

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

93

dematerialized form, may contact the Depository Participant of their choice. The request for transmission,
transposition of shares are being processed by the Registrar and Share Transfer Agents, and approved by the
Stakeholders Relationship Committee. In order to expedite the process, the Board of Directors has also delegated
the authority to the Company Secretary to approve transmission, transposition of shares, etc and accordingly, the
General Counsel and Company Secretary approved the transmission, transposition of shares, etc requests. The
details of such approvals is placed before the Committee for its noting. It may be noted that in the Board meeting
held on February 26, 2021 the Board has accorded approval for jointly authorising any two of Managing Director,
Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel and Company Secretary to approve the request that may be received
by the Company or by the RTA pertaining to share transfer, transmission and transposition of shares, issue of
duplicate shares, deletion of name, etc on fortnight basis and to place the report for noting before Stakeholders
Relationship committee and Board of Directors on quarterly basis.
xii)

Shareholding Pattern.
Shareholders

As on December 31, 2020

As on December 31, 2019

Sl No.

Description

Total Shares

% Equity

Total Shares

% Equity

1

Mutual Funds

719,834

1.70

2,716,841

6.41

2

Foreign Portfolio – Corp

2,020,913

4.77

1,442,173

3.40

3

Foreign Institutional Investors

NIL

0.00

2,200

0.01

4

Trusts

5

Alternative Investment Fund

6

5,829

0.01

10,096

0.02

630,500

1.49

174,261

0.41

Resident Individuals

4,168,153

9.83

2,815,249

6.64

7

Non Resident Indians

61,571

0.15

47,238

0.11

8

Clearing Members

16,135

0.04

4,763

0.01

9

Indian Financial Institutions

369

0.00

2,213,023

5.22

10

Banks

1,653

0.00

1,010

0.00

11

Qualified Institutional Buyer

2,179,226

5.14

631,509

1.49

12

Foreign Promoter Bodies Corporate Promoter and Promoter group

31,786,435

75.00

31,786,256

75.00

13

Foreign Bank

NIL

0.00

643

0.00

14

Non-Resident Indian Non-Repatriable

86,245

0.20

72,986

0.17

15

Bodies Corporates

403,056

0.95

196,387

0.46

16

NBFC

10,237

0.02

75,718

0.18

17

Directors and their relatives

NIL

0.00

NIL

0.00

18

IEPF

107,421

0.25

107,421

0.25

19

HUF

183,309

0.43

83,760

0.20

20

Foreign Nationals

141

0.00

141

0.00

21

Foreign Portfolio Investors

648

0.00

NIL

0.00

42,381,675

100

42,381,675

100.00

Total:

Distribution of Shareholding as on December 31, 2020

xiii)

Category

No. of Shareholders

No. of Shares held

% of equity capital

1 – 5,000

52,680

3,736,864

8.82

5,001 – 10,000

44

320,502

0.76
1.82

10,001 – 50,000

31

772,264

50,001 – 100,000

7

512,247

1.21

100,001 and above

11

37,039,798

87.40

Total

52,773

42,381,675

100

Dematerialisation of shares and liquidity.
The equity shares of the Company are available under dematerialised form with National Securities Depository
Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
The Company’s equity shares are compulsorily traded in the dematerialised form.
As on December 31, 2020, out of 42,381,675 equity shares of the Company, 42,069,677 equity shares have been
dematerialised representing 99.26 percent. Your Company confirms that the promoters’ holdings were converted
into electronic form and the same is in line with the circulars issued by SEBI except for ABB Switzerland Ltd,

94

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Promoter group which acquired 179 Equity shares through open offer and out of 179 Equity shares, 1 Equity share
was acquired in physical form and as on December 31, 2020 was still in physical form. Shareholders who are still
holding shares in physical form are requested to dematerialize their shares at the earliest, this will be more
advantageous to deal in securities. For queries / clarification / assistance, shareholders are advised to approach
the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents.
xiv)

Your outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any Convertible Instruments, conversion date and likely impact on
equity.
The Company has not issued GDRs, ADRs or any other Convertible Instruments and as such, there is no impact
on the equity share capital of the Company.

xv)

Code of Conduct.
As required under Listing Regulations, the Company has in place a Code of Conduct applicable to the Board
Members as well as the Senior Management Personnel and that the same has been hosted on the Company’s
website. All the Board Members and the Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code
of Conduct, as on December 31, 2020. A certificate to that effect is annexed as Annexure 2.
In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015,
the Company has, inter-alia, adopted a Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading Code of Practices and
Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (Code) duly approved by the Board of
Directors of the Company w.e.f. February 28,2020 and which was revised on February 08, 2021.
As per the above Code, Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda is the Compliance Officer and Ms. Manashwi Banerjee,
Communications - India & South Asia Power Grids is the Chief Investor Relations Officer.

xvi)

Company affirms that all the requirements under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 are complied with.

xvii)

Plant Locations.

Maneja
Live Tank Breakers
HV lnstrument
Transformers
Disconnectors
Power Transformers
Traction Transformers
Bushings
Global Engineering
Centre (TR)
Global Technology
Center
ABB PowerTEC

Vadodara

Halol
Insulation Kit Centre
Bengaluru
Head Office

Savli
Dry Transformer
GIS
PASS

Bengaluru
Mysuru

Bengaluru (Peenya)
Intelligent Electronic Devices (IEDs)
Capacitor & Filters

Mysuru
Press Board
Paper
Components

Head office, Bengaluru

Key manufacturing locations

Sales office

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

xviii)

95

Commodity Price Risk / Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging activities.
The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk on account of import and export transactions entered and
it is exposed to commodity price risk on account of procurement of base metals (Copper and Aluminium) to
be used in manufacturing activities. Details of commodities exposure are provided below:
a)

Total Exposure of the Company to commodities is ` 2,030,774,306/-

b)

Exposure of the Company to various commodities:
Commodity
Name

Copper
Aluminium

c)

Exposure in
` towards
the particular
commodity

Exposure in Quantity
terms towards the
particularcommodity

1,970,722,724
60,051,582

% of such exposure hedged through commodity derivatives
Domestic market

International market

OTC

Exchange

OTC

Exchange

4001 MT

-

-

41%

-

41%

296 MT

-

-

16%

-

16%

Total

Commodity risks faced by the Company during the financial year and how they have been managed.
The Company is a sizable user of various commodities which exposes it to the price risk on account of
procurement of commodities. The Company is proactively mitigating these risks by entering into commensurate
hedging transactions with banks as per applicable guidelines and group risk management instructions.

xix)

Address for correspondence*
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
8th Floor, Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560 092.
Phone No: 080 22041800
Corporate Secretarial e-mail ID: in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@hitachi-powergrids.com
Corporate Website: https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en
*The Registered Office of the Company has been shifted to this address w.e.f. March 16, 2020

xx)

The Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company is L31904KA2019PLC121597.

xxi)

Compliance Officer.
Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer of the Company and Secretary to all the
Committees of the Board.

xxii) Debenture Trustees-Not Applicable.
		
xxiii) Details of utilization of funds raised through preferential allotment or qualified institutions placement as specified
under Regulation 32 (7A)-Not applicable.
xxiv)

Where the board had not accepted any recommendation of any committee of the board which is mandatorily
required,in the relevant financial year, the same to be disclosed along with reasons thereof - Not applicable.

xxv)

Total fees for all services paid by the listed entity and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the statutory auditor and
all entities in the network firm / network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part : During the financial year under
review, the company was listed w.e.f. March 30, 2020 and the Company did not have any subsidiary. Based on the
recommendation of Audit committee and Board of Directors, Shareholders had approved appointment of M/s. S.R.
Batliboi & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants (Registration No. 101049W/E300004) as the Statutory Auditors of the
Company commencing from the conclusion of 1st Annual General Meeting to hold such office for a period of 5 years till
the conclusion of 6th Annual General Meeting at a remuneration of ` 12,500,000/- (Rupees One Crore and Twenty Five
Lakhs only) for FY 2020 plus applicable taxes in connection with the statutory audit of the Company and related services.

96

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

The details of the payment made for FY 2020 is as follows:
Amount in ` (in Crores)
Statutory audit fee (inclusive of out-of-pocket expenses)

0.48

Tax audit fee

0.27

Limited review fee

0.36

Group audit fee/one time certification fee

0.14

xxvi)

Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013:
a.
number of complaints filed during the financial year : 1
b.
number of complaints disposed of during the financial year : 1
c.
number of complaints pending as on end of the financial year : NIL

xxvii) The disclosures of the compliance with corporate governance requirements specified in regulation 17 to 27 and
clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 shall be made in the section on corporate governance of the
annual report.: The Board hereby confirms that it has complied with all the corporate governance requirements
specified in regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 of SEBI (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) 2015.
xxviii) Disclosures with respect to demat suspense account / unclaimed suspense account Pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement, 799 Equity shares of ` 2/- each of ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
was credited into the demat account of Unclaimed suspense account on December 24, 2019. There was no change in the
shareholding of Unclaimed suspense account during FY 2020.
Pursuant to the Regulation 39 (4) read with Schedule VI of the Listing Regulations, the Company’s Registrar & Share
Transfer Agents have already sent three reminders to those shareholders whose share certificates were returned
undelivered and remain unclaimed so far.
It may be noted that pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement (Demerger), the Equity shares in demat form were automatically
credited into Unclaimed shares account and Investors Education and Protection Fund Account and the voting rights
thereon have been frozen till the shares are claimed by the rightful owners.
Details are given below:
Shares credited to IEPF account: 107,421 Equity shares which were allotted on December 24, 2019
Share credited to Suspense account:
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the
suspense account lying at the beginning of the year

799 Equity shares-6 shareholders

Number of shareholders who approached issuer for transfer of shares
from suspense account during the year

NIL

Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from
suspense account during the year.

NIL

Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the
suspense account lying at the end of the year.

799 Equity shares-6 shareholders

15. Discretionary Requirements
•
•

The Auditors’ opinion on the financial statements is qualified and the Directors have provided their response in the
Directors Report
Internal Auditor has been appointed and reports directly to the Audit Committee

16. Other requirements as stipulated in SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 2015 and for Corporate
Governance report:
i)

Names of other listed entities in which person is director and category of directorship:

Sl no Director name

Names of other listed entities in which person is director and category of directorship as on December 31, 2020

1

Mr. Frank Duggan

NIL

2

Mr. Venu Nuguri

NIL

3

Mr. Mukesh Butani

NIL (Dabur India Limited appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. January 1, 2021)

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

4

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Heidelbergcement India Limited (Independent Director)
IndusInd Bank Limited(Independent Director)
Matrimony.com Limited (Independent Director)

5

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

L&T Infra Debt Fund Limited (Independent Director)
L&T Finance Holdings Limited (Independent Director)
HCL Technologies Limited (Independent Director)

6

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma

ABB India Limited (Managing Director)

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Details of Directorship in other Public/Private companies:
Director name

Frank Duggan

Venu Nuguri

Sanjeev Sharma

Names of companies

NIL

ABB Power Technology Services
Private LimitedChairman and Director
PT ABB Power Grids- IndonesiaDirector

ABB Global Industries and
Services Private LimitedChairman and Managing Director
ABB Substations Contracting India
Private Limited-Director
Swedish Chamber of Commerce
India-Director
Asea Brown Boveri Lanka (Private)
Limited-Director

Director name

Mukesh Butani

Akila Krishnakumar

Nishi Vasudeva

Names of companies

BMR Business Solutions Private
Limited- Director and
Non-Executive Chairman
International Tax Research and
Analysis Foundation-Director
Myytake Private Limited-DirectorDirector

Medwell Ventures Private LimitedNon-Independent Director and
0.6% shareholding
Brookprop Management Services
Private Limited-Independent
Director
Bharat Financial Inclusion LimitedNon-Independent Director

Atria Convergence Technologies
Limited-Independent Director
L&T Infrastructure Finance
Company Limited - Independent
Director

Details of Committeeship including other committees
Director name

Frank Duggan

Venu Nuguri

Sanjeev Sharma

Chairman / Member
in the Committees of
the Boards of other
companies in which he
is Director

NIL

1. Member of CSR Committee of
ABB Power Technology Services
Private Limited

1. Member of Stakeholder relationship committee of
ABB India Limited
2. Member of Corporate Social Responsibility
committee of ABB India Limited
3. Member of Risk Management committee of
ABB India Limited
4. Member of Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee of ABB Global Industries and Services
Private Limited

Director name

Mukesh Butani

Akila Krishnakumar

Nishi Vasudeva

1. Chairperson of Nomination and
Remuneration committee of
IndusInd Bank Ltd
2. Chairperson of Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee of
IndusInd Bank Ltd
3. Chairperson of Stakeholders
Relationship Committee of IndusInd
Bank Ltd
4. Member of Audit Committee of
Heidelbergcement India Limited
5. Chairperson of Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee of
Heidelbergcement India Limited
6. Chairperson of Stakeholders
Relationship committee of
Heidelbergcement India Limited
7. Member of Nomination and
Remuneration committee of
Heidelbergcement India Limited
8. Member of Audit Committee of
Matrimony.com Limited
9. Member of Nomination and
Remuneration committee of
Matrimony.com Limited
10. Member of Stakeholders
Relationship Committee of
Matrimony.com Limited

1. Member of Stakeholders Relationship Committee of
L&T Finance Holdings Limited
2. Member of Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee of L&T Finance Holdings Limited
3. Member of Audit Committee of HCL Technologies
Limited
4. Chairperson of Stakeholders Relationship Committee
of Atria Convergence Technologies Limited
5. Member of Audit Committee of Atria Convergence
Technologies Limited
6. Member of Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee of Atria Convergence Technologies
Limited
7. Member of Audit Committee of L&T Infrastructure
Finance Company Limited
8. Member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee
of L&T Infrastructure Finance Company Limited
9. Member of Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee of L&T Infrastructure Finance Company
Limited
10. Member of Audit Committee of L&T Infra Debt Fund
Limited
11. Member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee
of L&T Infra Debt Fund Limited
12. Member of Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee of L&T Infra Debt Fund Limited

Chairman / Member
1. Member of
in the Committees of
Research
the Boards of other
Committee of
companies in which he /
International
she is Director
Tax Research
and Analysis
Foundation

97

98

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ii)

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

The list of core skills / expertise / competencies identified by the board of directors as required in the context of its
business(es) and sector(s) for it to function effectively and those actually available with the board.
For effective functioning of the Board, your Company’s Board needs to have skills/expertise/competencies in the
areas of Business, Finance & Accounting and Governance/Legal. Your Company’s Board comprises of people from
diverse fields and across Globe. Your Company’s Directors are qualified and possess the appropriate knowledge,
skills, experience, expertise, diversity and independence, covering Business, Finance & Accounting and Governance/
Legal. In the table given below, various skills/expertise/competencies of Board of Directors are given:
Sl No

Name of Directors

Areas of Skills / expertise / competencies
Business

1

Mr. Frank Duggan (Chairman)

ü

2

Mr. Venu Nuguri

ü

3

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma

ü

Finance & Accounting

Governance / Legal

ü

ü

ü

ü

4

Mr. Mukesh Butani

ü

5

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

ü

ü

6

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

ü

ü

iii)

Confirmation from Board regarding Independent Directors criteria;
The Board of Directors confirm that in their opinion, the Independent Directors fulfill the conditions specified under
Companies Act 2013 and of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 2015 and are independent of the
management.

iv)

Credit ratings;
The Company does not have any debt instrument, fixed deposit programme or any scheme or proposal for mobilization
of funds. Hence, during the financial year ended December 31, 2020 it had not obtained any credit rating for this
purpose.
CRISIL has assigned its ‘CRISIL AAA/Stable/CRISIL A1+’ ratings to the bank facilities of the Company as follows
Rating Action w.e.f. January 4, 2021 :

v)

Total Bank Loan Facilities Rated

` 5,000 Crore

Long Term Rating

CRISIL AAA / Stable (Assigned)

Short Term Rating

CRISIL A1+ (Assigned)

Certificate from a company secretary in practice that none of the directors on the board of the Company have been
debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of company by the Board / Ministry of
Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority:
Enclosed as Annexure 3

17. Details of Other Committee meetings and membership
Listing Committee for Listing of Company:
During the financial year, two meetings were held on January 22, 2020 and March 19, 2020.
Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, Company Secretary acted as the Secretary to the Listing Committee for listing of the
Company.
The composition of the Listing Committee and attendance was as follows:
Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (Independent Director)

2

Mr. Venu Nuguri (Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer)

2

Mr Sanjeev Sharma (Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director)

2

As the Listing process was completed in March 2020, no more meetings were required to be convened.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Committee of Independent Directors for Open offer:
During the financial year, two meetings were held on September 03, 2020 and September 05, 2020.
Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, Company Secretary acted as the Secretary to the Committee of Independent Directors
for open offer.
The composition of the Committee of Independent directors for Open offer and attendance was as follows:
Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Mr. Mukesh Butani (Independent Director)

2

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (Independent Director)

2

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (Independent Director)

2

As the Open offer process was completed in September 2020, no more meetings were required to be convened.
Committee of Independent Directors for annual evaluation
During the financial year, one meeting was held on December 14, 2020.
Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, Company Secretary acted as the Secretary to the Committee of Independent Directors
for annual evaluation.
The composition of the Committee of Independent Directors and attendance was as follows:
Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Mr. Mukesh Butani (Independent Director)

1

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (Independent Director)

1

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (Independent Director)

1

							
		

For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

		
Bengaluru
February 26, 2021

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

99

100

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

MD/CFO Certificate
Annexure 1
To,
The Board of Directors,
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited.
We certify that;
A. We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement of ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
for the financial year ended December 31, 2020 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
1. These statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that
might be misleading;
2. These statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.

To the best of our knowledge and belief, no transaction entered into by the Company during the period are fraudulent,
illegal or violate the code of conduct of the Company.

C.

We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls over financial reporting and that we have
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company over financial reporting and we have disclosed to
the Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls over financial
reporting, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken, propose to take, to rectify these deficiencies. In our
opinion, there are adequate internal controls over financial reporting;

D.

We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee that there are:
1. No significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the period;
2. No significant changes in the accounting policies; and
3. No instances of fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement there in, if any, of the management or an
employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control systems over financial reporting.

E.

We affirm that we have not denied any personnel access to the Audit Committee of the Company and we have provided
protection to whistle blowers from unfair termination and other unfair or prejudicial employment practices.
We further declare that all Board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code
of Conduct and Ethics for the period covered by this report.

		
Bengaluru
February 26, 2021

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
DIN:07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Annexure 2
Declaration by the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer under Listing Regulations regarding compliance with
Business Conduct Guidelines (Code of Conduct).
In accordance with the Listing Regulations, I hereby confirm that all the Directors and the Senior Management Personnel
of the Company have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them, for the financial year ended
December 31, 2020.
		

For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

		
Bengaluru
February 26, 2021

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 07032076

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Annexure 3
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members of,								
ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED,
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560092.

We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of
ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED having CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597 and having registered
office at 8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’),
produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read
with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number
(DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its
officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the financial year ended
on December 31, 2020 (i.e., from January 01, 2020 to December 31, 2020) have been debarred or disqualified from being
appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs,
or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. No.

Name of Director

DIN

Date of appointment in
Company

1

Mr. Mukesh Hari Butani

01452839

24/12/2019

2

Mr. Frank Duggan

02937233

24/12/2019

3

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

03016991

24/12/2019

4

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

06629992

24/12/2019

5

Mr. Venu Nuguri

07032076

02/12/2019

6

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma

07362344

19/02/2019

Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an
assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has
conducted the affairs of the Company.
For V. Sreedharan & Associates

(Pradeep B. Kulkarni)
Partner
FCS 7260; CP No. 7835

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021
UDIN: F007260B003598331

101

102

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Annexure - H to Boards’ Report
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
To,
The Members of ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED.
Corporate Identity No. : L31904KA2019PLC121597
Nominal Capital
: Rs. 10 Crores
We have examined all the relevant records of ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED for the purpose of
certifying compliance of the conditions of the Corporate Governance under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for the financial year ended December 31, 2020. We have obtained all the information and
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of certification.
The compliance of conditions of corporate governance is the responsibility of the Management. Our examination was limited
to the procedure and implementation process adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of the
corporate governance.
This certificate neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which
the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations and information furnished to us, we certify
that the Company has complied with all the mandatory conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the said Regulations.
As regards Discretionary Requirements specified in Part E of Schedule II of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 the Company has complied with item E.

							For V. Sreedharan & Associates
							
Company Secretaries
							
(Pradeep B. Kulkarni)
							Partner
Place: Bengaluru						
F.C.S.7260; C.P.No.7835
Date: February 26, 2021					
UDIN: F007260B003597418

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Annexure - I to Boards’ Report
FORM MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 2020
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
Managerial Personnel) Rules 2014]
To,
The Members,
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited.
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092.
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate
practices by ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited (hereinafter called the “Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted
in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our
opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained
by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during
the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the
financial year ended on 31st December, 2020, complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company
has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made
hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed, and other records maintained by the Company for
the financial year ended on 31st December 2020 according to the provisions of:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.

The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Rules made thereunder and the relevant provisions of The Companies Act, 1956;
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the Rules made thereunder;
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Byelaws framed thereunder;
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings.
v. The Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’)
vi. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
The Company has identified the following laws as specifically applicable to the Company:
1.
Factories Act, 1948 & the Central Rules or concerned State Rules, made thereunder.
2.
Boilers Act, 1923 & Rules made thereunder.
3.
Electricity Act, 2003.
4.
Indian Explosives Act, 1884.
5.
Gas Cylinder Rules, 1981 (under Indian Explosives Act).
6.
Static and Mobile Pressure Vessels (Unfired) Rules, 1981 (under Indian Explosives Act).
7.
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.
8.
The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 & Central Rules/concerned State Rules.
9.
The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 & Central Rules/concerned State Rules.
10. Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989.
11. Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989.
12. The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 & its Central Rules/concerned State Rules.
13. The Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 & EPF, FPF Schemes.

103

104

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

The Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules.
The Minimum Wages Act, 1948 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules/ Notification of Minimum Wages applicable
to various class of industries/ Trade.
The Payment of Wages Act, 1936 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules if any.
The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules if any.
The Payment of Gratuity Act & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules if any.
The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 & its Rules.
The Equal Remuneration Act, 1976.
The Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 & its Rules.
The Apprentices Act, 1961 & its Rules.
The Employment Exchange (Compulsory Notification of Vacancies) Act, 1959.
The Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923.
The Industrial Dispute Act, 1947.
The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
The Information Technology Act, 2000.

We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
(i) Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI);
(ii) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015;
During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,
Standards, etc. mentioned above.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors
and Independent Directors. The changes in the compositions of the Board of Directors that took place during the period under
review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least
seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
We further report that based on review of compliance mechanism established by the Company and on the basis of the Compliance
Certificate(s) issued by the Company Secretary and taken on record by the Board of Directors at their meeting(s), we are of the
opinion that the management has adequate systems and processes commensurate with its size and operations, to monitor and
ensure compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines; and
We further report that the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Bengaluru Bench had approved the Scheme of
Arrangement (Demerger) between ABB India Limited and ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited vide its order dated
November 27, 2019. In accordance with Para 5 of Part III (A) of Annexure I of the SEBI circular no. CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21 dated
March 10, 2017 (as amended vide SEBI Circular dated January 03, 2018), the Company was required to complete the formalities
for listing and trading of securities with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited within 60 days of receipt of the
order of the Hon’ble NCLT. There has been a delay with the requirement thereby leading to non-compliance with SEBI circular
dated March 10, 2017 and the same was notified by SEBI to the Company with a cc to BSE Limited. The Company replied by
stating that the delay was inadvertent and Company made best efforts for meeting the timelines and that it assures to meet the
prescribed timelines in future and remain in compliance with all applicable provisions of the SEBI Rules and Regulations.
We further report that the Company has received listing and trading approval from BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock
Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) on March 25, 2020. The equity shares commenced trading on BSE and NSE from trading hours
on March 30, 2020 and as such 42,381,675 equity shares of the Company have been listed on the exchange.
We further report that the promoters made a Public Announcement on March 29, 2020 according to the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. The open offer was made by ABB Switzerland
Ltd (“Acquirer 1”) for the acquisition of up to 10,595,419 fully paid up equity shares of the face value of INR 2 each, representing
25.00 percent of the Voting Share Capital of ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited (“Target Company”) from all the
Public Shareholders of the Target Company (“Open Offer” or “Offer”). The Open Offer was made along with Hitachi Ltd. (“Acquirer
2”) and along with Acquirer 1, the “Acquirers”, and Hitachi ABB Power Grids AG (previously named ABB Management Holding
AG) (“PAC 1”) and ABB Ltd (“PAC 2”) and along with PAC 1 the “PACs” acting in their capacity as persons acting in concert with

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

the Acquirers (“Open Offer” or “Offer”). The aggregate number of shares accepted were 179 fully paid up equity shares at an offer
price of INR 872.68 resulting into the size of the offer to INR 156,209.72. The Promoters shareholding as on 31st December, 2020
was 75.001 percent pursuant to the open offer of shares. The Promoter / Promoter Group will reduce their shareholding to achieve
Minimum Public Shareholding within the time frame permitted as per the applicable laws.
As informed, the Company has responded to notices for demands, claims, penalties etc. levied by various statutory / regulatory
authorities and initiated actions for corrective measures, wherever necessary.

								For BMP & Co. LLP,
								

Company Secretaries

								Pramod S M
Place: Bengaluru							
Partner
Date: 26th February, 2021						
FCS No: 7834
UDIN: F007834B003580007						
CP No: 13784
					

This report to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this report.

‘Annexure A’
To,
The Members,
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092.
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2. We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4. Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations
and happening of events etc.
5. The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, Rules, Regulations, standards is the responsibility
of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
7. We further report that, based on the information provided by the Company its officers, authorised representatives during the
conduct of the audit and also on the review of quarterly compliance report by the respective departmental heads/Company
Secretary/Managing Director taken on record by the Board of the Company, in our opinion adequate systems and process
and control mechanism exist in the Company to monitor compliance with applicable general laws like labour laws & Environment
laws and Data protection policy.
8. We further report that the Compliance by the Company of applicable Financial laws like Direct & Indirect tax laws has not been
reviewed in this audit since the same has been subject to review by the statutory financial audit and other designated
professionals.
For BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries

Place: Bengaluru
Date: 26th February, 2021
UDIN: F007834B003580007

Pramod S M
Partner
FCS No: 7834
CP No: 13784

105

106

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Secretarial Compliance Report of ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited for the year ended December 31st, 2020
To,
The Board of Directors,
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited,
CIN: L31904KA2019PLC121597
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru -560092.
We, BMP & Co. LLP, have examined:
a. All the documents and records made available to us and explanation provided by ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited (“the listed entity”),
b. The filings/ submissions made by the listed entity to the stock exchanges,
c. Website of the listed entity,
d. Any other document/ filing, as may be relevant, which has been relied upon to make this certification,
for the year ended December 31st, 2020 (“Review Period”) in respect of compliance with the provisions of:
(a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (“SEBI Act”) and the Regulations, circulars, guidelines issued
thereunder; and
(b) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (“SCRA”), rules made thereunder and the Regulations, circulars,
guidelines issued thereunder by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”);
The specific Regulations, whose provisions and the circulars/guidelines issued thereunder, have been examined, include:
a. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015;
b. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; Not Applicable
as the Company did not issue any security during the financial year under review.
c. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
d. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; Not Applicable as the Company did not
buyback any of its securities during the financial year under review.
e. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014; Not applicable as the Company
did not issue any Employee Stock Option Scheme for its employees.
f. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; Not applicable as the
Company has not issued any debt securities during the financial year under review.
g. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible and Redeemable Preference Shares)
Regulations, 2013; Not Applicable as Company has not issued Preference shares during the year under review.
h. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
i. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993; Not applicable
as the Company is not registered as Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent during the financial year under review;
and
j. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009;
and based on the above examination, we hereby report that, during the Review Period:
(a) The listed entity has complied with the provisions of the above Regulations and circulars/ guidelines issued thereunder,
except in respect of matters specified below:
Sr. No.

Compliance Requirement
(Regulations / circulars / guidelines
including specific clause)

Deviations

Observations/ Remarks of the
Practicing Company Secretary

1

SEBI circular no. CFD/DIL3/
CIR/2017/21 dated March 10, 2017
(as amended vide SEBI Circular dated
January 03, 2018)

The Company was required to complete the
formalities for listing and trading of
securities with BSE Limited and National
Stock Exchange of India Limited within
60 days of receipt of the order of the
Hon’ble NCLT. There was a delay thereby
leading to non-compliance with SEBI
circular dated March 10, 2017

The delay was inadvertent, and the
Company had made best efforts
towards meeting timelines. The
Company has assured to meet the
prescribed timelines in future and
remain in compliance with all
applicable provisions of the SEBI
Rules and Regulations

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

(b) The listed entity has maintained proper records under the provisions of the above Regulations and circulars/guidelines
issued thereunder insofar as it appears from my/our examination of those records.
(c) The following are the details of actions taken against the listed entity/ its promoters/ directors/ material subsidiaries either
by SEBI or by Stock Exchanges (including under the Standard Operating Procedures issued by SEBI through various
circulars) under the aforesaid Acts/ Regulations and circulars/ guidelines issued thereunder:
Action taken by

Details of violation

Details of action taken E.g. fines,
warning letter, debarment, etc.

Observations/ remarks of the
Practicing Company Secretary,
if any.

NA

NA

NA

NA

(d) The listed entity has taken the following actions to comply with the observations made in previous reports:
Observations of the
Practicing Company
Secretary in the
previous reports

Observations made in the
secretarial compliance report
for the year ended.
(The years are to be mentioned)

Actions taken by the
listed entity, if any

Comments of the Practicing
Company Secretary on the
actions taken by the listed entity

NA

NA

NA

NA

(e) The terms of appointment the Statutory Auditor are in line with 6(A) and 6(B) of SEBI Circular No. CIR/CFD/CMD1/114/2019
dated October 18, 2019.

For BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries

Place: Bengaluru
Date: 26th February, 2021
UDIN: F007834B003580139

Pramod S M
Partner
FCS No: 7834
CP No: 13784

107

108

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Advancing India’s goal to make
Indian Railways a net-zero carbon
emitter by 2030 through rail
electrification

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

109

110

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Independent Auditors’ Report
To the members of ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited.
Report on the Audit of the Ind AS financial statements.
Qualified opinion
We have audited the accompanying Ind AS financial
statements of ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited (“the Company”), which comprise the Balance sheet
as at December 31, 2020, the Statement of Profit and Loss,
including the statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the
Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year then ended, and notes to the Ind AS financial
statements, including a summary of significant accounting
policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according
to the explanations given to us, except for the possible effects
of the matters described in the ‘Basis for Qualified Opinion’
section of our report, the aforesaid Ind AS financial statements
give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013,
as amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a
true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the
Company as at December 31, 2020, its profit including other
comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in
equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for qualified opinion
We draw attention to Note 38 (a) to the accompanying Ind AS
financial statements regarding the Scheme of Arrangement
(‘Scheme’) for demerger of the power grid business of ABB
India Limited with the Company with an appointed date of
April 01, 2019 and approved by the National Company Law
Tribunal (‘NCLT’) vide its order dated November 27, 2019.
As per the applicable accounting standard Ind AS 103, since
this demerger was a common control business combination,
the financial information necessitated restatement by the
transferee at carrying amounts not from the appointed date
but from the beginning of the preceding period in the financial
statements which happens to be the date of incorporation i.e.
February 19, 2019. Accordingly, the Company was required
as per Ind AS 103 to give effect to the business combination
from February 19, 2019 (date of its incorporation). However,
the Company had recognized the impact of the business
combination only from April 01, 2019 (i.e. the appointed date
specified in the scheme) and has not restated and disclosed
financial results for the period from February 19, 2019 to
March 31, 2019, in the comparative period ended December
31, 2019. However, there is no impact of the same on the
Company’s Ind AS financial statements of the year ended

December 31, 2020. Our opinion on the current year’s
statement is qualified because of the possible effect of this
matter on the comparability of the current period’s figures and
the corresponding figures.
This matter was also qualified in the comparative period by
the preceding auditor.
We conducted our audit of the Ind AS financial statements in
accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under
those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Ind AS Financial
Statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the
Company in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the
financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the
Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and
the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our qualified audit opinion on the Ind AS financial
statements.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional
judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Ind
AS financial statements for the financial year ended December
31, 2020. These matters were addressed in the context of our
audit of the Ind AS financial statements as a whole, and in
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate
opinion on these matters. In addition to the matter described
in the ‘Basis for Qualified Opinion’ section we have determined
the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be
communicated in our report. For each matter below, our
description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided
in that context.
We have determined the matter described below to be
the key audit matter to be communicated in our report. We
have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s
responsibilities for the audit of the Ind AS financial statements
section of our report, including in relation to these
matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of
procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the
risks of material misstatement of the Ind AS financial
statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the
procedures performed to address the matters below, provide
the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying Ind AS
financial statements.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Key audit matters

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Revenue recognition for long term projects and contract estimates
(as described in Note 37(a) of the Ind AS financial statements)
A significant portion of the Company’s business comprises
long-term fixed price projects. Revenue from these contracts is
recognized in accordance with the principles laid down in Ind AS
115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers and as detailed in
“significant accounting policies” of the Ind AS financial statements.

In view of the significance of the matter, we applied the following
audit procedures in this area, among others to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence:
•

We assessed the revenue recognition accounting policies by
comparing with applicable accounting standards.

In accordance with Ind AS 115, the Company classifies its various
contracts with customers and determines whether revenue should
be recognized at “point in time” or “over the time” basis.

•

We tested key controls (both design and operating
effectiveness) with respect to revenue recognition and related
cost estimations.

There are various areas involving complexities, judgements and
estimates involved in accounting for revenue recognized on “over
the time” basis, including:

•

We carried out analytical procedures on revenue recognized
during the year to identify unusual variances.

•

Estimation of total contract costs at inception and remaining
costs to completion, which is a critical factor in measuring
progress of a contract and amounts of revenue to be
recognized; and

•

We performed substantive testing by selecting samples of
revenue transactions, recorded during the year by testing the
underlying documents using statistical sampling.

•
•

Assessment of various risks emanating from operational
delays, contract terms, changes in estimations and scope,
accounting for onerous obligations, technical, legal, external
environment etc. This requires the Company to estimate
various costs to capture such risks, including liquidated
damages and warranties.

We evaluated management’s estimates (contract costs and
risk provisions) by performing analytical procedures on such
estimates.

•

We performed a retrospective review for contracts completed
during the current year by comparing the final outcome of the
contracts with previous estimates made for those contracts to
assess the reliability of the management’s estimation process.

•

We performed tests for completeness and appropriateness
of actual cost booked in the correct period, by testing the
underlying documents for samples selected using statistical
sampling.

•

We assessed the disclosures made in the Ind AS financial
statements.

In view of the above and because the Company and its external
stakeholders focus on revenue as a key performance indicator,
we determined this area to be an area involving significant risk,
an area of audit focus, and accordingly a key audit matter.

Trade receivables, unbilled revenue and contract assets
(as described in Note 37 (b) of the Ind AS financial statements)
Trade receivables, including retention money with customers,
unbilled revenue and contract assets forms a significant part of
the Ind AS financial statements. Customer contracts typically
involve time consuming and complex conditions around closure
of contracts, including technical acceptances. This generally leads
to longer and significant time for realization of receivables. As a
result of the above, management’s assessment of recoverability of
trade receivables, unbilled revenue and contract assets, involves
critical evaluation of all factors impacting recoverability, including
impact of external environment, capability of customers to pay,
historical payment records, evaluation of litigations, etc. including
the possible effect from the pandemic relating to COVID-19.

In view of the significance of the matter, we applied the following
audit procedures in this area, among others to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence:
•

We obtained an understanding of the processes implemented
by management over the recognition and the recoverability of
the trade receivables, unbilled revenue and contract assets.

•

We tested key controls (both design and operating
effectiveness) over the recognition and the recoverability of
the trade receivables, unbilled revenue and contract assets.

•

We obtained and tested the ageing of aforesaid receivables /
assets on a sample basis.

•

We performed test of details and tested relevant contracts,
documents and subsequent settlements for material trade
receivable balances, unbilled revenue and amounts included
in contract assets.

111

112

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Key audit matters

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Trade receivables, unbilled revenue and contract assets
(as described in Note 37 (b) of the Ind AS financial statements)
Management makes an impairment allowance for trade
receivables, unbilled revenue and contract assets on the basis of
it’s assessment of recoverability of specific customers and on the
basis of expected credit loss model for the remaining customers
in accordance with Ind AS 109, financial instruments. For the
purposes of impairment assessment, significant judgements and
assumptions are made, including assessing credit risk, timing and
amount of realization, etc.

•

We evaluated the model adopted by management to estimate
the expected credit loss, including the possible effect from the
pandemic relating to COVID-19. We enquired the management
in respect of the various judgements and estimates made
relating to impairment provision against trade receivable,
unbilled revenue and contract assets.

•

We obtained and discussed management assessment of
impairment for specific customer balances and understood
reasons for the determination.

•

We have circulated direct confirmations on a sample basis
using statistical sampling. In case of non-receipt of such
confirmations, alternate test procedures such as testing
subsequent receipts and underlying documents have been
performed.

•

We assessed the disclosures made in the Ind AS financial
statements.

In view of above, we determined this area to be an area of audit
focus, and accordingly a key audit matter.

		

Information other than the financial statements and
Auditor’s Report thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other
information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Annual report, but does not include the Ind AS
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The
annual report is expected to be made available to us after the
date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the Ind AS financial statements does not cover
the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Ind AS financial statements,
our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing
so, consider whether such other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.

flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,
including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified
under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. This
responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the
Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities;
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies;
making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of
the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and
presentation of the Ind AS financial statements that give a true
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.

When we read the annual report, if we conclude that there
is a material misstatement therein, we are required to
communicate the matter to those charged with governance
and take necessary actions as applicable under the applicable
laws and regulations.

In preparing the Ind AS financial statements, management is
responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related
to going concern and using the going concern basis of
accounting, unless management either intends to liquidate
the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic
alternative but to do so.

Responsibilities of the management for the Ind AS
financial statements

Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing
the Company’s financial reporting process.

The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the
preparation of these Ind AS financial statements that give
a true and fair view of the financial position, financial
performance including other comprehensive income, cash

Auditor’s responsibilities for the Audit of the Ind AS
financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the Ind AS financial statements as a whole are free

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these Ind AS financial
statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise
professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
•

•

Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of
the Ind AS financial statements, whether due to fraud or
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the
audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i)
of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our
opinion on whether the Company has adequate internal
financial controls with reference to Ind AS financial
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of
such controls.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate
with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with
governance, we determine those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the Ind AS financial statements for
the financial year ended December 31, 2020 and are therefore
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not
be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other matter
The Ind AS financial statements of the Company for the year
ended December 31, 2019, included in these Ind AS financial
statements, have been audited by the predecessor auditor
who expressed a qualified opinion on those statements on
February 28, 2020.
Report on Other legal and regulatory requirements
1. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order,
2016 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of
India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act,
we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the matters
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.

•

Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by management.

•

Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may
cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue
as a going concern. If we conclude that a material
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Ind AS
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate,
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s
report. However, future events or conditions may cause
the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

2. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:

Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of
the Ind AS financial statements, including the disclosures,
and whether the Ind AS financial statements represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that
achieves fair presentation.

(c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss
including the Statement of Other Comprehensive
Income, the Cash Flow Statement and Statement of
Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in
agreement with the books of account;

We communicate with those charged with governance
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and

(d) Except for the effects of the matter described in the
Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph above, in our

•

(a) We have sought and except for the matter described
in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph, obtained
all the information and explanations which to the best
of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the
purposes of our audit;
(b) Except for the matter described in the Basis for
Qualified Opinion paragraph, in our opinion, proper
books of account as required by law have been
kept by the Company so far as it appears from our
examination of those books;

113

114

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

opinion, the aforesaid Ind AS financial statements
comply with the Accounting Standards specified
under Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as
amended;
(e) On the basis of the written representations received
from the directors as on December 31, 2020 taken on
record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors
is disqualified as on December 31, 2020 from being
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of
the Act;
(f) The qualification relating to the maintenance of
accounts and other matters connected therewith are
as stated in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph
above;
(g) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial
controls over financial reporting of the Company with
reference to these Ind AS financial statements and the
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our
separate Report in “Annexure 2” to this report;
(h) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for
the year ended December 31, 2020 has been paid /
provided by the Company to its directors in accordance
with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule
V to the Act.
(i) With respect to the other matters to be included in
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014,

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

as amended in our opinion and to the best of
our information and according to the explanations
given to us:
i.

The Company has disclosed the impact of pending
litigations on its financial position in its Ind AS
financial statements – Refer Note 34 to the Ind AS
financial statements;

ii. The Company has made provision, as required
under the applicable law or accounting standards,
for material foreseeable losses, if any, on longterm contracts including derivative contracts –
Refer Notes 17 and 21 to the Ind AS financial
statements;
iii. There has been no delay in transferring
amounts, required to be transferred, to the
Investor Education and Protection Fund by the
Company.

For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership Number: 061207
UDIN: 21061207AAAABJ9418
Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Annexure - 1 to the Independent
Auditors’ Report
Annexure 1 referred to in clause 1 of paragraph on the
report on other legal and regulatory requirements of our
report of even date.

v)

Re: ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
(‘the Company’)
i)

ii)

iii)

iv)

a

The Company has maintained proper records
showing full particulars, including quantitative
details and situation of fixed assets.

b

Fixed assets have been physically verified by the
management during the year and no material
discrepancies were identified on such verification.

c

According to the information and explanations
given to us by the management of the Company,
the title deeds of the immovable properties
acquired as per the scheme of arrangement
approved by the National Company Law Tribunal
vide its order dated November 27, 2019 included in
property, plant and equipment and as tabulated
below are not held in the name of the Company.
Particulars

Number
of cases

Freehold/ Leases
hold land and
building attached
to it

6

Gross block
(` in crores)

Net block
(` in crores)

194.49

173.63

vi)

In our opinion and according to the information and
explanations given to us by the management of the
Company, there are no loans, investments, guarantees,
and securities given in respect of which provisions of

We have broadly reviewed the books of account
maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules made
by the Central Government for the maintenance of cost
records under section 148(1) of the Act, related to the
products manufactured by the Company and are of the
opinion that prima facie, the specified accounts and
records have been made and maintained. We have not,
however, made a detailed examination of the same.

vii) a

Undisputed statutory dues including provident fund,
employees’ state insurance, goods and service tax,
income tax, duty of custom, cess and other material
statutory dues as applicable to the Company, have
generally been regularly deposited with the
appropriate authorities.

b

According to the information and explanations
given to us by the management of the Company
and audit procedures performed by us, no
undisputed amounts payable in respect of
provident fund, employees’ state insurance,
income tax, service tax, sales tax, duty of custom,
duty of excise, value added tax, goods and service
tax, cess and other statutory dues as applicable to
the Company were outstanding, at the year end, for
a period of more than six months from the date
they became payable.

c

According to the information and explanations
given to us by the management of the Company,
there are no dues of income tax, sales tax, service
tax, goods and service tax, customs duty, excise
duty, value added tax and cess which have not
been deposited on account of any dispute.

The inventory has been physically verified by the
management during the year. In our opinion, the
frequency of verification is reasonable. No material
discrepancies were noticed on such physical verification.
Inventories lying with third parties have been confirmed
by them to the management as at December 31, 2020
and no material discrepancies were noticed in respect of
such confirmations.
According to the information and explanations given to
us by the management of the Company, the Company
has not granted any loans, secured or unsecured to
companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or other
parties covered in the register maintained under section
189 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’). Accordingly,
the provisions of clause 3(iii)(a), (b) and (c) of the Order
are not applicable to the Company and hence not
commented upon.

section 185 and 186 of the Act are applicable and hence
not commented upon.
The Company has not accepted any deposits within the
meaning of Sections 73 to 76 of the Act and the
Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014
(as amended). Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(v)
of the Order are not applicable.

viii) In our opinion and according to the information and
explanations given to us by the management of the
Company, the Company has not defaulted in repayment
of loans or borrowing to banks. The Company did not
have any outstanding loans or borrowing dues in respect
of a financial institution or to government or dues to
debenture holders during the year.
ix)

According to the information and explanations given to
us by the management of the Company, the Company

115

116

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

has not raised any money by way of initial public offer/
further public offer/debt instruments and term loans
during the year and hence, reporting under clause (ix)
is not applicable to the Company and hence not
commented upon. Also refer note 15(f) to the Ind AS
financial statements.
x)

xi)

Based upon the audit procedures performed for
the purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the
Ind AS financial statements and according to the
information and explanations given to us by the
management of the Company, we report that no fraud by
the Company or no fraud on the Company by the officers
and employees of the Company has been noticed or
reported during the year.
According to the information and explanations
given to us by the management of the Company, the
managerial remuneration has been paid / provided
in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated
by the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V
to the Act.

xii) In our opinion, the Company is not a Nidhi Company.
Therefore, the provisions of clause 3(xii) of the Order
are not applicable to the Company and hence not
commented upon.
xiii) According to the information and explanations given to
us by the management of the Company, transactions
with the related parties are in compliance with section
177 and 188 of the Act where applicable and the details
have been disclosed in the notes to the Ind AS financial
statements, as required by the applicable accounting

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

standards.
xiv) According to the information and explanations given to
us by the management of the Company and on an overall
examination of the balance sheet, the Company has not
made any preferential allotment or private placement of
shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during the
year under review and hence, reporting requirements
under clause 3(xiv) are not applicable to the Company
and hence not commented upon.
xv) According to the information and explanations given
to us by the management of the Company, the Company
has not entered into any non-cash transactions with
directors or persons connected with him as referred to in
section 192 of the Act during the year and hence, reporting
requirements under clause 3(xv) are not applicable to the
Company and hence not commented upon.
xvi) According to the information and explanations given to
us by the management of the Company, the provisions
of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934
are not applicable to the Company.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI firm registration number: 101049W/E300004
Per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership number: 061207
UDIN: 21061207AAAABJ9418
Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Annexure - 2 to the Independent
Auditors’ Report
Annexure 2 to the independent auditor’s report of even
date on the Ind AS financial statements of ABB Power
Products and Systems India Limited.
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i)
of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act,
2013 (“the Act”).
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial
reporting of ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
(“the Company”) as of December 31, 2020 in conjunction with
our audit of the Ind AS financial statements of the Company
for the year ended on that date.
Management’s
controls

responsibility

for

internal

Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls
over financial reporting with reference to these Ind AS financial
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of
internal financial controls over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over
financial reporting with reference to these Ind AS financial
statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the Ind AS financial statements, whether due
to fraud or error.

financial

The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining internal financial controls based on the
internal control over financial reporting criteria established
by the Company, considering the essential components
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit
of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting
(the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate
internal financial controls that were operating effectively
for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its
business, including adherence to the Company’s policies,
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and
completeness of the accounting records, and the timely
preparation of reliable financial information, as required
under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company‘s
internal financial controls over financial reporting with
reference to these Ind AS financial statements based on our
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the
Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing as specified
under section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls
and, both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the
Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal
financial controls over financial reporting with reference to
these Ind AS financial statements was established and
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all
material respects.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls over
financial reporting with reference to these Ind AS financial
statements.
Meaning of internal financial controls over financial
reporting with reference to these Ind AS financial
statements.
A company‘s internal financial control over financial reporting
with reference to these Ind AS financial statements is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
the Ind AS financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company‘s internal financial control over financial reporting
with reference to these Ind AS financial statements includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of Ind AS financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the Company are being made only in
accordance with authorisations of management and directors
of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised
acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company‘s assets that
could have a material effect on the Ind AS financial statements.
Inherent limitations of internal financial controls over
financial reporting with reference to these Ind AS
financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial
controls over financial reporting with reference to these

117

118

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Ind AS financial statements, including the possibility of
collusion or improper management override of controls,
material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
internal financial controls over financial reporting with
reference to these Ind AS financial statements to future
periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control
over financial reporting with reference to these Ind AS financial
statements may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects,
adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting
with reference to these Ind AS financial statements and such
internal financial controls over financial reporting with
reference to these Ind AS financial statements were operating

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

effectively as at December 31, 2020, based on the internal
control over financial reporting criteria established by the
Company considering the essential components of internal
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership Number: 061207
UDIN: 21061207AAAABJ9418
Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

119

Balance Sheet
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Balance sheet as at December 31, 2020
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Capital work-in-progress
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Financial assets
Loans
Non-current tax assets (net)
Deferred tax assets (net)
Other non-current assets

Notes

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

3
3
4
5
5

574.54
46.53
32.36
31.80
2.96

539.71
56.69
31.80
7.94

6
7
8
9

10.29
3.75
21.85
5.08
729.16

6.22
11.53
1.85
655.74

10

495.08

493.20

11
12
6
13
14

1,584.50
318.95
5.97
120.63
248.83
2,773.96
3,503.12

1,782.85
188.04
6.66
125.58
188.55
2,784.88
3,440.62

Equity and liabilities
Equity
Equity share capital
Other equity

15
16

8.48
924.04
932.52

8.48
831.34
839.82

Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities (net)

35(b)
17
8

27.20
0.87
28.07

1.19
4.16
5.35

18
35(b)

11.87

347.62
-

19
19

40.94
1,537.04

24.69
1,352.41

17
20
21

114.93
649.51
188.24
2,542.53

133.52
597.87
139.34
2,595.45

3,503.12

3,440.62

Current assets
Inventories
Financial assets
Trade receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Loans
Other financial assets
Other current assets
Total Assets

Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
Lease liabilities
Trade payables
Total outstanding dues to micro enterprises and small enterprises
Total outstanding dues to creditors other than micro enterprises
and small enterprises
Other financial liabilities
Other current liabilities
Provisions

Total equity and liabilities

Summary of significant accounting policies

2

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements		
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R.Batliboi & Associates LLP
Firm registration number.: 101049W/E300004
Chartered Accountants

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of		
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

120

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Statement of profit and loss for the year
ended December 31, 2020		
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

3,420.44
18.50

3,236.06
0.47

3,438.94

3,236.53

24

1,726.62
97.69

1,530.44
172.26

25

(63.73)

55.55

26
27
28
29

266.81
369.41
77.17
20.44
772.75

269.48
255.20
48.41
26.38
617.37

3,267.16

2,975.09

171.78
35.50

261.44
40.79

136.28

220.65

60.12
(23.64)
36.48
99.80

62.20
(6.94)
55.26
165.39

(8.07)
2.03
(6.04)

0.67
(0.17)
0.50

93.76

165.89

23.55

44.69

Notes
Income
Revenue from operations
Other income

22
23

Total income
Expenses
Cost of raw materials, components consumed and project bought outs
Purchase of stock-in-trade
(Increase)/decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and
stock-in-trade
Subcontracting charges
Employee benefits expense
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Finance costs
Other expenses
Total expenses
Profit before exceptional items and tax
Exceptional items

38

Profit before tax
Tax expense:
Current tax
Deferred tax credit
Total tax expenses
Profit for the year/period

8
8

Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Re-measurement (losses)/gains on defined benefit plan
Income tax effect
Other comprehensive income for the year/period, net of income tax

8

Total comprehensive income for the year/period, net of income tax
Earnings per equity share of face value of ` 2 each
Basic and diluted (`)

30

Summary of significant accounting policies
2
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements

As per our report of even date attached
For S.R.Batliboi & Associates LLP
Firm registration number.: 101049W/E300004
Chartered Accountants

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of		
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

121

Statement of cash flows for the year
ended December 31, 2020			
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax

136.28

220.65

Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Unrealised exchange loss / (gains) (net)
Mark to market change in forward, commodity contracts and embedded derivative contracts
Loss on sale of fixed assets (net)
Provision for doubtful debts and advances / Bad debts / advances written off
Interest income
Finance costs
Operating profit before working capital changes

77.17
8.69
(10.70)
0.65
45.40
(1.56)
20.44
276.37

48.41
(0.71)
(20.56)
0.34
5.21
(0.47)
26.38
279.25

Movement in working capital
Increase / (decrease) in trade payables
Increase / (decrease) in other financial liabilities
Increase / (decrease) in other liabilities and provisions
(Increase) / decrease in trade receivables
(Increase) / decrease in inventories
(Increase) / decrease in other financial assets
(Increase) / decrease in loans and other assets
Cash generated from operations
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
Net cash flow generated from/(used in) operating activities

191.98
(2.40)
71.45
183.59
(1.88)
14.17
(88.79)
644.49
(34.77)
609.72

294.53
(166.14)
(13.81)
(369.01)
(23.62)
123.82
(123.95)
1.07
(73.73)
(72.66)

B.

Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of intangible assets
Interest received
Net cash flow used in investing activities

(90.69)
0.92
(0.78)
1.56
(88.99)

(73.04)
0.08
(0.28)
0.47
(72.77)

C.

Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from short-term borrowings
Repayment of short-term borrowings
Finance cost paid
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities
Payment of interest portion of lease liabilities
Net cash flow (used in)/from financing activities

1,250.00
(1,597.62)
(30.40)
(9.53)
(2.27)
(389.82)

347.62
(14.15)
333.47

130.91
188.04
318.95

188.04
188.04

318.95
318.95

188.04
188.04

A.

Net (decrease)/ increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year/period
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year/period (refer note 12)
Components of cash and cash equivalents
Cash and bank balances (refer note 12)

Note:
i. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year represent cash and cheques on hand / remittance in transit and cash and deposits with banks.
ii. Cash flow statement is made using the indirect method.					
Summary of significant accounting policies			
2
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements			

As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Firm registration number.: 101049W/E300004
Chartered Accountants

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of		
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

122

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended December 31, 2020
a.

Equity share capital:

Equity shares of ` 2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Particulars
As at February 19, 2019
Changes in equity share capital (refer note 38(a))
As at December 31, 2019
Changes in equity share capital
As at December 31, 2020

Number of shares

Amount

50,000
4,23,31,675
4,23,81,675
4,23,81,675

0.01
8.47
8.48
8.48

b. Other equity :
Attributable to equity shareholders
Particulars

As at February 19, 2019
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement
(refer note 38(a))
Profit for the period
Other comprehensive income for the period
(net of tax)
As at December 31, 2019
Transition adjustment due to adoption of
Ind AS 116 "Leases" (refer note 35(b)) (net of tax)
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax)
As at December 31, 2020

Reserves and surplus
Retained
Capital
earnings
reserve

Securities
premium

General
reserve

9.80

507.10

149.93

0.18

Amalgamation
adjustment
deficit account
(1.56)

-

-

165.39
0.50

-

-

165.39
0.50

9.80
-

507.10

315.82

0.18

(1.56)

831.34

-

(1.06)

-

-

(1.06)

507.10

99.80
(6.04)
408.52

0.18

(1.56)

99.80
(6.04)
924.04

9.80

Total equity
665.45

Summary of significant accounting policies
2		
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements

As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Firm registration number.: 101049W/E300004
Chartered Accountants

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of		
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Partner
Membership no. 061207

Achim Michael Braun
Chairman
DIN: 08596097

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

123

Notes to the financial statements for the
year ended December 31, 2020
1.

Corporate Information				
								
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited (‘the Company’ or ‘APPSIL’) is a public limited company domiciled in India
and incorporated under the provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 2013 on February 19, 2019. The registered office is
located at Bengaluru. The Company will serve utility and industry customers, with the complete range of engineering,
products, solutions and services in areas of Power technology. The Company has extensive installed base for manufacturing
and a countrywide marketing and service presence. Besides catering to Indian domestic market, the Company is also playing
an increasing role in the global market.
During the year, the equity shares of the Company have been listed and are being traded on BSE Limited (“BSE”) and
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”).
The financial statements are approved for issue by the Company’s Board of Directors on February 26, 2021.

2.

Significant accounting policies
The significant accounting policies applied by the Company in the preparation of its standalone Ind AS financial statements
are listed below. Such accounting policies have been applied consistently to all the periods presented in these financial
statements, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation of financial statements								
A
Statement of compliance
				
These financial statements of the Company are prepared and presented in accordance with Indian Accounting
Standards (“Ind AS”) notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended
and other relevant provision of the Act as amended from time to time and presentation requirements of Division II of
Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS compliant Schedule III), as applicable to the financial statements.
			
B
Functional and presentation currency
				
The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees crores which is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the Company operated, rounded off to two decimal places, except where otherwise
indicated.			
C
Basis of measurement
				
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost convention and on accrual basis, except for
certain financial instruments (refer accounting policy regarding financial instruments), which are measured at
fair values at the end of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting policies below.			
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services
as at the date of respective transactions.		
2.2 Use of estimates
								
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with Ind AS requires management to make estimates, judgements
and assumptions. These estimates, judgements and assumptions affect the application of accounting policies and the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Application of accounting policies that
require critical accounting estimates involving complex and subjective judgements and the use of assumptions in these
financial statements have been disclosed in Note 2.3. Accounting estimates could change from period to period. Actual
results could differ from those estimates. Appropriate changes in estimates are made as management becomes aware of
changes in circumstances surrounding the estimates. Changes in estimates are reflected in the financial statements in the
period in which changes are made and, if material, their effects are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.

124

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

2.3

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods affected. The Company based its assumptions
and estimates on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and
assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising that
are beyond the control of the Company. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
Significant judgements and estimates relating to the carrying values of assets and liabilities include, determination of
estimated projected cost and revenue in long-term contracts, determination of term of lease contracts, fair value
measurement, impairment of goodwill, provision for employee benefits and other provisions, recoverability of deferred
tax assets and commitments and contingencies.
2.3.1 Estimates and assumptions
								
a. Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment represent a significant proportion of the asset base of the Company. The
charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining an estimate of an asset’s expected
useful life and the expected residual value at the end of its life. The useful lives and residual values of
Company’s assets are determined by management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed
periodically, including at each financial year end. The lives are based on historical experience with similar
assets as well as anticipation of future events, which may impact their life, such as changes in technology.
b.

Provision for employee benefits
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are determined
using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from
actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases
and mortality rates. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined
benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each
reporting date. The parameter most subject to change is the discount rate. In determining the appropriate
discount rate for plans operated in India, the management considers the interest rates of government bonds
in currencies consistent with the currencies of the post-employment benefit obligation. The mortality rate
is based on publicly available mortality tables. Those mortality tables tend to change only at interval in
response to demographic changes. Future salary increases and gratuity increases are based on expected
future inflation rate and past trends. Further details about gratuity obligations are given in Note 31.

c.

Provision for litigations and contingencies
The provision for litigations and contingencies are determined based on evaluation made by the
management of the present obligation arising from past events the settlement of which is expected to result
in outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, which involves judgements around estimating the
ultimate outcome of such past events and measurement of the obligation amount. Due to the judgements
involved in such estimations, the provisions are sensitive to the actual outcome in future periods.

d.

Project revenue and costs
The Company uses the percentage-of-completion method in accounting for its fixed-price contracts. Use
of the percentage-of-completion method requires the Company to estimate the efforts or costs expended
to date as a proportion of the total efforts or costs to be expended. Efforts or costs expended have been
used to measure progress towards completion as there is a direct relationship between input and
productivity. Provisions for estimated losses, if any, on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period
in which such losses become probable based on the expected contract estimates at the reporting date.
Further, the percentage-of-completion method places considerable importance on accurate estimates
to the extent of progress towards completion and may involve estimates on the scope of deliveries and
services required for fulfilling the contractually defined obligations. These significant estimates include
total contract costs, total contract revenues, contract risks, including technical, political and regulatory
risks, and other judgments. This requires the Company to estimate various costs to capture such risks,

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

including liquidated damages and warranties. The Company re-assesses these estimates on periodic
basis and makes appropriate revisions accordingly.
e.

Provision
Significant estimates are involved in the determination of provisions related to liquidated damages, onerous
contracts and warranty provision. The Company records a provision for onerous sales contracts when
current estimates of total contract costs exceed expected contract revenue. Warranty provision is
determined based on the historical trend of warranty expense for the same types of goods for which the
warranty is currently being determined, after adjusting for unusual factors related to the goods that were
sold or based on specific warranty clause in an agreement. Such estimates are reviewed annually for any
material changes in assumptions and likelihood of occurrence. The provision for warranty, liquidated
damages and onerous contracts is based on the best estimate required to settle the present obligation at
the end of reporting period.

f.

Impairment of non-financial assets
Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit (CGU) exceeds its
recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The
fair value less costs of disposal calculation is based on available data from binding sales transactions,
conducted at arm’s length, for similar assets or observable market prices less incremental costs for
disposing of the asset. The value in use calculation is based on a Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model.
The cash ﬂows are derived from the budget and do not include restructuring activities that the Company
is not yet committed to or signiﬁcant future investments that will enhance the asset’s performance of the
CGU being tested. The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the DCF model as
well as the expected future cash-inﬂows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes.

g.

Fair value measurement of ﬁnancial instruments
When the fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using appropriate
valuation techniques. The inputs for these valuations are taken from observable sources where possible,
but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values. Judgements
include considerations of various inputs including liquidity risk, credit risk, volatility etc. Changes in
assumptions/judgements about these factors could effect the reported fair value of ﬁnancial instruments.

h.

Taxes
The Company uses estimates and judgements based on the relevant rulings in the areas of allocation of
revenue, costs, allowances and disallowances which is exercised while determining the provision for income
tax. Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of tax regulations, changes in tax laws, and the
amount and timing of future taxable income. Given the wide range of business relationships differences
arising between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could
necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. The Company establishes
provisions, based on reasonable estimates. The amount of such provisions is based on various factors,
such as experience of previous assessments and interpretations of tax regulations by the Company.

i.

Impairment allowance for trade receivables
The Company uses a provision matrix to calculate Expected Credit Losses (‘ECL’) for trade receivables.
The provision rates are based on days past due for groupings of various customer segments that have
similar loss patterns (i.e., by geography, customer type, rating and coverage by letters of credit and other
forms of credit insurance). The provision matrix is initially based on the Company’s historical observed
default rates. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated and changes in
the forward-looking estimates are analysed. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes in circumstances
and of forecast economic conditions.

j.

Leases: whether an arrangement contains a lease
The Company determines the lease term as the agreed tenure of the lease, together with any periods

125

126

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

covered by an option to extend the lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any periods covered
by an option to terminate the lease, if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised. After the commencement
date, the Company reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances that
is within its control and affects its ability to exercise or not to exercise the option to renew or to terminate
(e.g., construction of significant leasehold improvements or significant customisation to the leased asset).
2.4

Impact of implementation of new standards/amendments:
Ind AS 116 Leases:
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company has applied Ind AS 116 “Leases” for the first time.
The nature and effect of the changes as a result of adoption is described in note 3 and 35(b).
Several other amendments apply for the first time for the year ending December 31, 2020, but do not have an impact
on the Ind AS financial statements of the Company. The Company has not early adopted any standards, amendments
that have been issued but are not yet effective/notified.

2.5 Current and non-current classification
								
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current/ non-current classification.
An asset is treated as current when it is:			
•
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal operating cycle;
•
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
•
Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period; or
•
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve
months after the reporting period.
All other assets are classified as non-current.			
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non-current as per the Company’s operating cycle and
other criteria set out in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013. Based on the nature of products and the time
between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realization in cash and cash equivalents, the Company has
ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months for the purpose of current and non-current classification of assets and
liabilities, except for long-term contracts. The projects business comprises long-term contracts which have an
operating cycle exceeding one year. For classification of current assets and liabilities related to projects business,
the Company uses the duration of the individual life cycle of the contract as its operating cycle.			
A liability is current when:			
•
It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle;			
•
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;			
•
It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period; or 			
•
There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting
period;			
The Company classifies all other liabilities as non-current;			
Advance tax paid is classified as non-current assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities.			
2.6 Foreign currency
								
Functional currency.
The functional currency of the Company is the Indian Rupee.		
		
Transactions and translations. Initial recognition transactions in foreign currencies are recorded by the Company at
their respective functional currency spot rates at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates
of exchange at the reporting date. The gains or losses resulting from such translations are recognised in the statement
of profit and loss.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Non-monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign currency and measured at fair value are
translated at the exchange rate prevalent at the date when the fair value was measured. Non-monetary assets and
non-monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign currency and measured at historical cost are translated at the
exchange rate prevalent at the date of the transaction.
Transaction gains or losses realized upon settlement of foreign currency transactions are included in determining net profit
for the period in which the transaction is settled. Revenue, expense and cash flow items denominated in foreign currencies
are translated into the relevant functional currencies using the exchange rate in effect on the date of the transaction.		
						
2.7 Revenue recognition 							
								
The Company has adopted Ind AS 115, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. Revenue from contracts with
customers is recognised when control of the goods or services are transferred to the customer at an amount that
reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the
revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being made. Revenue is measured at the fair
value of the consideration received or receivable, taking into account contractually defined terms of payment and
excluding taxes or duties collected on behalf of the government. The Company has concluded that it is the principal
in all of its revenue arrangements since it is the primary obligor in all the revenue arrangements as it has pricing latitude
and is also exposed to inventory and credit risks.			
The Company considers whether there are other promises in the contract that are separate performance obligations
to which a portion of the transaction price needs to be allocated if any. In determining the transaction price for the
sale of goods, the Company considers the effects of variable consideration, the existence of significant financing
components, noncash consideration, and consideration payable to the customer (if any).
Revenue are stated exclusive of goods and service tax and net of trade and quantity discount.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have
passed to the buyer, usually on delivery of the goods. Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value
of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns and allowances, trade discounts and volume rebates.		
In case of large transformers, revenue is recognized on achievement of contractual milestone. Revenue recognized
in excess of billing has been reflected under “Other financial assets” as unbilled revenue.			
Revenues from long-term contracts are recognized on the percentage of completion method, in proportion that the
contract costs incurred for work performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total contract costs.
Contract revenue earned in excess of billing has been reflected under “Other current assets” and billing in excess of
contract revenue has been reflected under “Other current liabilities” in the balance sheet. Full provision is made for
any loss in the year in which it is first foreseen.			
Liquidated damages/penalties are provided for as per the contract terms wherever there is a delayed delivery
attributable to the Company.		
Revenue from the development services is recognised as per the contract terms and when accrued. When the contract
outcome cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that the expenses incurred are eligible
to be recovered.
Commission income is recognized as per contract terms and when accrued.			
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive the payment is established, which is generally
when shareholders approve the dividend.			
Interest income is recognised on time proportion basis. 			
		
2.8 Income taxes
								
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred income tax. Income tax expense is recognized in net profit in the
statement of profit and loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognized directly in equity, in which case it is
recognized in other comprehensive income. Current income tax for current and prior periods is recognized at the amount

127

128

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax authorities, using the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each
reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realized.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of changes in tax rates on deferred income
tax assets and liabilities is recognized as income or expense in the period that includes the enactment or the substantive
enactment date. A deferred income tax asset is recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will
be available against which the deductible temporary differences and tax losses can be utilized. The Company offsets
current tax assets and current tax liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts
and where it intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
2.9

Property, plant and equipment
Recognition and measurement.
Freehold Land is carried at historical cost, all other item of property, plant and equipment is measured at cost, net of
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Cost includes expenditures that are directly
attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment
and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of
property, plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Company depreciates them separately
based on their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the
carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in statement of profit or loss as incurred. The Company
identifies and determines cost of each component/part of property, plant and equipment separately, if the component/
part has a cost which is significant to the total cost of the property, plant and equipment and has useful life that is
materially different from that of the remaining asset.
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, plant and equipment outstanding at each balance sheet date is
classified as capital advances and cost of assets not ready for use at the balance sheet date are disclosed under
capital work-in-progress is stated at cost less accumulated impairment loss.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only
when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the cost of
the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a separate assets are
derecognised when replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit and loss during the reporting
period in which they are incurred.
The Company identifies and determines cost of each component/part of the asset separately, if the component/part
has a cost which is significant to the total cost of the asset having useful life that is materially different from that of
the remaining asset. These components are depreciated over their useful lives; the remaining asset is depreciated
over the life of the principal asset.
Depreciation		
The Company depreciates property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line
method. Leasehold assets are depreciated lower of lease period or life of the assets. The estimated useful lives of
assets are as follows:		
Useful lives estimated by the management in years:
Particulars
Leasehold land
Leasehold improvements
Factory buildings
Other buildings
Furniture and fixtures
Office equipments
Plant and equipment
Vehicles

Years
98
1-10
15-30
3-60
10
3-5
2-21
5

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed periodically, at each reporting date. Further,
freehold land are carried at historical cost and is not depreciated.
De-recognition
An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal
or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition
of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is
included in the statement of profit and loss when the asset is derecognised.
2.10 Intangible assets
						
								
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition,
intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Internally
generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is
reflected in the statement of profit and loss in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
Amortisation
Amortisation is recognised in the statement of profit and loss on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives
of the intangible assets.
The estimated useful life of assets are as follows:
Particulars

Years

Technical know-how fees

3-10

Capitalized software costs

3-5

Goodwill on business acquisition is not amortized but tested for impairment.		
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.		
			
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever
there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method
for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the
expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are
considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting
estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the statement of profit and
loss unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value of another asset.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually
or at the cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the
indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a
prospective basis.			
De-recognition
Intangible assets are de-recognised either on their disposal or where no future economic benefits are expected from
their use. Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the statement of profit and loss
when the asset is derecognised.			
2.11 Leases							
								
The Company is required to adopt Ind AS 116 Leases from 1 January 2020. Ind AS 116 replaces existing leases
guidance, including Ind AS 17 Leases. Ind AS 116 introduces a single Balance sheet lease accounting model for
lessees. A lessee recognises a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability
representing its obligation to make lease payments. There are recognition exemptions for short-term leases and
leases of low-value items. Lessor accounting remains similar to the current standard – i.e. lessors continue to classify
leases as finance or operating leases.

129

130

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

The Company assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Company as a lessee
The Company applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-term leases
and leases of low-value assets. The Company recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use
assets representing the right to use the underlying assets.
Right-of-use assets
The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying
asset is available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and
impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes
the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the
commencement date less any lease incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Lease Liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of
lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments (including in substance
fixed payments) less any lease incentives receivable, variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate,
and amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. The lease payments also include the exercise
price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Company and payments of penalties for
terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Company exercising the option to terminate. Variable lease
payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognised as expenses (unless they are incurred to produce
inventories) in the period in which the event or condition that triggers the payment occurs.
In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease
commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement
date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments
made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease
term, a change in the lease payments (e.g., changes to future payments resulting from a change in an index or rate
used to determine such lease payments) or a change in the assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset.
Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised as expense on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.
Leases (prior to January 01, 2020 i.e. application of Ind AS 116)
A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease.
Company as a lessee
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of the leased
property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Finance charges are recognised as finance
costs in the statement of profit and loss and are computed using the effective interest method. A leased asset is
depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the statement of profit and loss on a straight-line basis
over the lease term.		
2.12 Borrowing costs											
			
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes
a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and
other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost also includes exchange
differences to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the borrowing costs.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

2.13 Inventories							
								
Inventories consist of raw materials, work-in-progress, finished goods, traded goods and stores and spares. Inventories
are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. However, materials and other items held for use in the
production of inventories are not written down below cost if the finished goods in which they will be incorporated are
expected to be sold at or above cost.
The cost of various categories of inventories is arrived at as follows:			
Stores, spares, raw materials, components and traded goods - at rates determined on the moving weighted average
method.			
Goods in Transit – at actual cost.			
Work-in-progress and finished goods - at full absorption cost method which includes direct materials, direct labour
and manufacturing overheads. Cost is determined on weighted average method.			
Cost includes expenditures incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs
incurred in bringing them to their existing location and condition. 			
Provision for obsolescence is made wherever necessary.			
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion
and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.			
The factors that the Company considers in determining the provision for slow moving, obsolete and other non-saleable
inventory include estimated shelf life, planned product discontinuances, price changes, ageing of inventory and
introduction of competitive new products, to the extent each of these factors impact the Company’s business and
markets. The Company considers all these factors and adjusts the inventory provision to reﬂect its actual experience
on a periodic basis.			
								
2.14 Financial instruments
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity
instrument of another entity.			
2.14.1 Initial recognition
The Company recognizes financial assets and financial liabilities when it becomes a party to the contractual
provisions of the instrument. All financial assets and liabilities are recognized at fair value on initial recognition,
except for trade receivables which are initially measured at transaction price. Transaction costs that are
directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities, that are not at fair
value through profit or loss, are added to the fair value on initial recognition.			
2.14.2 Subsequent measurement
a.

Non-derivative financial instruments
(i)

Financial assets carried at amortised cost
A financial asset is subsequently measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business where
the objective is to hold the asset in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms
of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

(ii) Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
A financial asset is subsequently measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if it
is held within a business where the objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows
and selling financial assets and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified
dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding. The Company has made an irrevocable election for its investments which are classified
as equity instruments to present the subsequent changes in fair value in other comprehensive
income based on its business model. Further, in cases where the Company has made an irrevocable

131

132

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

election based on its business model, for its investments which are classified as equity instruments,
the subsequent changes in fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income.
(iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
A financial asset which is not classified in any of the above categories are subsequently fair valued
through profit or loss.
(iv) Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are subsequently carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method,
For trade and other payables maturing within one year from the balance sheet date, the carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial instrument
and of allocating interest income or expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is
the rate that exactly discounts future cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the
financial instrument, or where appropriate, a shorter period.
Classification as debt or equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified according to the
substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability
and an equity instrument.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company
after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of
direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are subsequently
measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method where the time value of money
is significant. Interest bearing bank loans, overdrafts are initially measured at fair value and are
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Any difference
between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the settlement or redemption of borrowings
is recognised over the term of the borrowings in the statement of profit and loss.
For trade and other payables maturing within one year from the balance sheet date, the carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
a) Off-setting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the standalone
balance sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and
there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities
simultaneously.
(v)

Derecognition
A financial asset is primarily derecognised when:
• The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or
• The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed
an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party
under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the Company has transferred substantially
all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company has neither transferred nor
retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of
the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured
at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration
that the Company could be required to repay.			

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

b.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Derivative financial instruments
The Company holds derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option
contracts including commodity contracts to mitigate the risk of changes in exchange rates on foreign
currency exposures and fluctuation in commodity prices. The counterparty for these contracts is
generally a bank.
Financial assets or financial liabilities, at fair value through profit or loss.
This category has derivative financial assets or liabilities which are not designated as hedges.
Although the Company believes that these derivatives constitute hedges from an economic perspective,
they may not qualify for hedge accounting under Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments. Any derivative that
is either not designated a hedge, or is so designated but is ineffective as per Ind AS 109, is categorized
as a financial asset or financial liability, at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivatives not designated as hedges are recognized initially at fair value and attributable transaction
costs are recognized in the statement of profit and loss when incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition,
these derivatives are measured at fair value through profit or loss and the resulting exchange gains or
losses are included in other income/expenses. Assets/ liabilities in this category are presented as current
assets/current liabilities if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realized within 12 months
after the balance sheet date.
Certain commercial contracts may grant rights to the Company or the counterparties, or contain other
provisions that are considered to be derivatives. Such embedded derivatives are assessed at inception
of the contract and depending on their characteristics, accounted for as separate derivative instruments
and shown at their fair value in the balance sheet with changes in their fair value recognized through
profit or loss.

2.15 Fair value of financial instruments
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that
the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
a) In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
b) In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.
Fair value hierarchy:
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within
the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value
measurement as a whole:
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is
directly or indirectly observable
Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is
unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company
determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each
reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the
basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as
explained above.
In determining the fair value of its financial instruments, the Company uses a variety of methods and assumptions
that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each reporting date. The methods used to determine

133

134

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

fair value includes discounted cash flow analysis, available quoted market prices and dealer quotes. All methods
of assessing fair value result from general approximation of value and the same may differ from the actual
realised value.
		
2.16 Cash flow statement
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, whereby profit for the period is adjusted for the effects of
transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or payments
and item of income or expenses associated with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating,
investing and financing activities of the Company are segregated.
2.17 Other income
Other income is comprised primarily of interest income and Exchange and commodity rate difference (net).
Interest income is recognized using the effective interest method.
		
2.18 Finance costs
Borrowing costs are recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss using the effective interest method. The
associated cash ﬂows are classiﬁed as ﬁnancing activities in the statement of cash ﬂows.
2.19 Provisions, contingent liability and contingent assets
General
A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation
that is reasonably estimable, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the
obligation. If the effect of time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected
future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is
recognised as a ﬁnance cost.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Company from a
contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. The provision is measured
at the present value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of
continuing with the contract. Before a provision is established, the Company recognises any impairment loss on
the assets associated with that contract.
Warranty provisions
Provisions for warranty-related costs are recognised when the product is sold to the customer. Initial recognition
is based on historical experience. The initial estimate of warranty-related costs is revised annually.
Contingent Liability
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed by
the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Company or
a present obligation that is not recognized because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required
to settle the obligation. A contingent liability also arises in extremely rare cases where there is a liability that
cannot be recognized because it cannot be measured reliably. The Company does not recognize a contingent
liability but discloses its existence in the financial statements.
Contingent assets
Contingent assets are not recognised or disclosed in financial statements since this may result in the recognition
of income that may never be realised. However, when the realisation of income is virtually certain, then the related
asset is not a contingent asset and is recognised.
Provisions, contingent liability and contingent assets are reviewed at each balance sheet.		
2.20 Impairment
a

Financial assets
Financial assets (other than at fair value) The Company assesses at each date of balance sheet whether a

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. Ind AS 109 (‘Financial Instruments’) requires expected
credit losses to be measured through a loss allowance. The Company recognises lifetime expected losses for
all contract assets and / or all trade receivables that do not constitute a financing transaction. For all other
financial assets, expected credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the 12-month expected credit
losses or at an amount equal to the life time expected credit losses if the credit risk on the financial asset has
increased significantly since initial recognition. The Company provides for impairment upon the occurrence of
the triggering event.
b

Non-financial assets
The Company assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Company estimates the
asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s
(CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. Recoverable amount is determined for an individual
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or
groups of assets. When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is
considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are evaluated for recoverability whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment
testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined
on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from
other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.		

If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized in the statement of profit and loss
is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the estimated recoverable amount
of the asset. An impairment loss is reversed in the statement of profit and loss if there has been a change in the
estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss in case of goodwill is not reversed. The
carrying amount of the asset is increased to its revised recoverable amount, provided that this amount does not
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of any accumulated amortization or depreciation)
had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years.			
						
2.21 Earnings per share		 					
								
The Company presents basic and diluted Earnings per share for its ordinary shares. Basic earnings per equity share
is computed by dividing the net profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average
number of equity shares outstanding during the year/period. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed by
dividing the net profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of equity
shares considered for deriving basic earnings per equity share and also the weighted average number of equity
shares that could have been issued upon conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares. The dilutive potential
equity shares are adjusted for the proceeds receivable had the equity shares been actually issued at fair value (i.e.
the average market value of the outstanding equity shares). Dilutive potential equity shares are deemed converted
as of the beginning of the period, unless issued at a later date. Dilutive potential equity shares are determined
independently for each period presented.
2.22 Retirement and other employee benefits
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund and pension fund are defined contribution scheme. The Company
has no obligation, other than the contribution payable. The Company recognizes contribution payable to provident
fund and pension fund as expenditure, when an employee renders the related service. 			
2.22.1 Gratuity - Defined benefit plans
The present value of the obligation under defined benefit plans are determined based on actuarial valuation
using the Projected Unit Credit Method. In case of funded plans, the fair value of the plan assets is reduced
from the gross obligation under the defined benefit plans to recognize the obligation on a net basis.
The Company is in process of setting up trust for Gratuity.
Remeasurement comprising of actuarial gains and losses is recognized in other comprehensive income
(OCI) and is reflected in reserves and surplus as part of equity and is not eligible to be reclassified to profit
or loss.

135

136

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

The Company recognises the following changes in the net defined benefit obligation as an expense in
statement of profit and loss:
•
•

Service cost including current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on curtailments and
settlements; and
Net interest expense or income.

2.22.2 Superannuation - Defined contribution scheme
Contribution to Superannuation Fund, is made at pre-determined rates to the Superannuation Fund Trust
and is charged to the statement of profit and loss during the period in which the employee renders the
related services. There are no other obligations other than the contribution payable to the Superannuation
Fund Trust. The Company is in process of setting up the Superannuation Fund Trust.			
2.22.3 Compensated absences
Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilised within the next 12 months, is treated as short-term
employee benefits. The Company measures the expected cost of such absences as the additional amount
that it expects to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the reporting date. The
Company presents the entire accumulated leave as a current liability in the balance sheet, since it does not
have an unconditional right to defer its settlement for 12 months after the reporting date. Such long-term
compensated absences are provided for based on the actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit
method at the year-end. 			
2.23 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with
an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cheque at hand /
remittance in transit and cash and deposit with the bank.		
2.24 Cash dividend
The Company recognises a liability to make cash distributions to equity holders of the Company when the distribution
is authorised and the distribution is no longer at the discretion of the Company. A corresponding amount is recognised
directly in equity. Final dividends on shares are recorded as a liability on the date of approval by the shareholders
and interim dividends are recorded as a liability on the date of declaration by the Company’s Board of Directors.
2.25 Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) expenditure
The Company charges its CSR expenditure during the year to the statement of profit and loss.
2.26 Segment
Operating segments are identified as those components of the Company (a) that engage in business activities to
earn revenues and incur expenses (including transactions with any of the Company’s other components (b) whose
operating results are regularly reviewed by the Company’s Chief Executive Officer to make decisions about resource
allocation and performance assessment and (c) for which discrete financial information is available. The accounting
policies consistently used in the preparation of the financial statements are also applied to record revenue and
expenditure in individual segments.
The Company is engaged in the business relating to products, projects and services for electricity transmission
and related activities during the year ended December 31, 2020. These activities of the Company are reviewed
regularly by the chief operating decision maker from an overall business perspective, rather than reviewing its
products/services as individual standalone components and therefore subject to the same risk and reward and
accordingly falls within single business segment.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

2.27 Scrip sales
Export entitlements in the form of Merchandise Export from India (MEIS) are recognized in the statement of profit
and loss when the right to receive credit as per the terms of the scheme is established in respect of exports made
and when there is no significant uncertainty regarding the ultimate collection of the relevant export proceeds.
2.28 Exceptional items
Exceptional Items represents the nature of transactions which are not in recurring nature during the ordinary course
of business but lead to increase/decrease in profit/loss for the year.
2.29 Recent Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
The following new standards and amendment to Ind AS have not been have not been applied by the Company as
they are effective annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2021:
Standards issued but not yet effective
Amendments to Ind AS 103 Business Combinations
The amendments to the definition of a business in Ind AS 103 help entities determine whether an acquired set of
activities and assets is a business or not. They clarify the minimum requirements for a business, remove the
assessment of whether market participants are capable of replacing any missing elements, add guidance to help
entities assess whether an acquired process is substantive, narrow the definitions of a business and of outputs,
and introduce an optional fair value concentration test.
			
These amendments are applicable to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the
beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after the January 1, 2021 and to asset acquisitions
that occur on or after the beginning of that period. Since the amendments apply prospectively to transactions or
other events that occur on or after the date of first application, the Company will not be affected by these
amendments on the date of transition.
Amendments to Ind AS 1 and Ind AS 8: Definition of Material 			
The amendments to Ind AS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and Ind AS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in
Accounting Estimates and Errors align the definition of ‘material’ across the standards and clarify certain aspects
of the definition. The new definition states that, Information is material if omitting, misstating or obscuring it could
reasonably be expected to influence decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial statements make
on the basis of those financial statements, which provide financial information about a specific reporting entity.
The amendments clarify that materiality will depend on the nature or magnitude of information, either individually
or in combination with other information, in the context of the financial statements.			
A misstatement of information is material if it could reasonably be expected to influence decisions made by the
primary users.			
			
These amendments are applicable prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after the January 1, 2021.
The amendments to the definition of material are not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s
financial statements.			
			
Amendments to Ind AS 107 and Ind AS 109: Interest Rate Benchmark Reform			
The amendments to Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments: recognition and measurement provide a number of reliefs,
which apply to all hedging relationships that are directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform. A hedging
relationship is affected if the reform gives rise to uncertainties about the timing and or amount of benchmark-based
cash flows of the hedged item or the hedging instrument.			
			
The amendments to Ind AS 107 prescribe the disclosures which entities are required to make for hedging
relationships to which the reliefs as per the amendments in Ind AS 109 are applied. These amendments are
applicable for annual periods beginning on or after the January 1, 2021. These amendments are not expected to
have a significant impact on the Company’s financial statements.

137

138

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

3.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Property, plant and equipment and Right-of-Use (ROU) assets
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Property, plant and equipment (Owned Assets)
Free hold
land

Gross carrying
value
As at February
19, 2019
Transfer
pursuant to
scheme of
arrangement
(refer note 38(a))
Additions
Disposals

Lease
Lease Factory
Other Plant and
hold
hold buildings buildings
equipland improvement
ments

ROU Assets

Office Furniture Vehicles
equipand
ment’s fixtures

Total
owned
Assets

Lease
Office Vehicles Total ROU
hold buildings
Assets
land

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

13.71

9.53

0.36

130.16

25.74

477.97

5.99

13.02

0.34

676.82

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

7.95

1.92

49.46

0.12

1.00

-

60.45

-

-

-

-

-

`

-

-

-

(4.99)

(0.06)

(0.29)

(0.03)

(5.37)

-

-

-

-

As at December
31, 2019

13.71

9.53

0.36

138.11

27.66

522.44

6.05

13.73

0.31

731.90

-

-

-

-

On account of
transition to Ind
AS 116

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

20.28

10.30

30.58

17.98

Additions

-

-

12.17

0.48

5.14

82.29

3.50

2.20

-

105.78

-

15.60

2.38

Reclassification

-

-

-

(1.72)

1.72

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Disposals

-

-

-

(0.14)

-

(6.98)

(0.29)

(0.70)

(0.26)

(8.37)

-

-

Transfer to ROU
assets
Transfer from
owned assets

-

(9.53)

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

(9.53)

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

9.53

-

-

9.53

13.71

-

12.53

136.73

34.52

597.75

9.26

15.23

0.05

819.78

9.53

35.88

12.68

58.09

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0.71

0.17

2.89

1.24

144.07

1.81

2.42

0.18

153.49

-

-

-

-

-

0.07

0.03

4.42

2.20

35.39

0.51

0.99

0.04

43.65

-

-

-

-

-

0.78

0.20

7.31

3.44

(4.69)
174.77

(0.03)
2.29

(0.22)
3.19

(0.01)
0.21

(4.95)
192.19

-

-

-

-

-

-

0.90

6.05

3.32

46.98

1.52

1.79

0.07

60.63

0.10

7.02

3.66

10.78

-

(0.78)

-

(0.31)
(0.14)
-

0.31
-

(5.44)
-

(0.28)
-

(0.68)
-

(0.26)
-

(6.80)
(0.78)

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0.78

-

-

0.78

-

-

1.10

12.91

7.07

216.31

3.53

4.30

0.02

245.24

0.88

7.02

3.66

11.56

13.71

8.75

0.16

130.80

24.22

347.67

3.76

10.54

0.10

539.71

-

-

-

-

13.71

-

11.43

123.82

27.45

381.44

5.73

10.93

0.03

574.54

8.65

28.86

9.02

46.53

As at December
31, 2020
Accumulated
depreciation
As at February
19, 2019
Transfer
pursuant to
scheme of
arrangement
(refer note 38(a))
Depreciation
charge for the
period
Disposals
As at December
31, 2019
Depreciation
charge for the
year
Reclassification
Disposals
Transfer to ROU
assets
Transfer from
owned assets
As at December
31, 2020
Net carrying
value as at
December 31,
2019
Net carrying
value as at
December 31,
2020

-

Notes:
1) There are no tangible assets given on operating lease.
2) Freehold land, Leasehold land, Factory buildings and other buildings transferred to the Company, pursuant to the scheme of arrangement, as detailed
in note 38(a) is in the process of being registered in the name of the Company.
3) The net block of Leasehold land of ` 8.75 crores (Gross block - ` 9.53 crores and accumulated depreciation - ` 0.78 crores) has been reclassified to
“Right-of-Use” assets on account of adoption of Ind AS 116 “Leases”. Refer note 35(b).

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

4.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

139

Capital work in progress
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Capital work in progress
Gross carrying value
As at February 19, 2019

-

Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (refer note 38(a))

37.86

Additions

79.28

Capitalised during the period

(60.45)

As at December 31, 2019

56.69

Additions

5.

81.45

Capitalised during the year

(105.78)

As at December 31, 2020

32.36

Goodwill and other intangible assets
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Other intangible assets
Goodwill

Technical
Know-how fees

Capitalised
Software

Total

Gross carrying value
As at February 19, 2019

-

-

-

-

31.80

33.36

2.41

35.77

Additions

-

-

0.28

0.28

Disposals

-

-

-

-

31.80

33.36

2.69

36.05

Additions

-

-

0.78

0.78

Disposals

-

-

(0.02)

(0.02)

31.80

33.36

3.45

36.81

Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (refer note 38(a))

As at December 31, 2019

As at December 31, 2020
Accumulated amortisation / impairment
As at February 19, 2019

-

-

-

-

Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (refer note 38(a))

-

22.18

1.17

23.35

Amortisation charge for the period

-

4.46

0.30

4.76

Disposals

-

-

-

-

As at December 31, 2019

-

26.64

1.47

28.11

Amortisation charge for the year

-

5.39

0.37

5.76

Disposals

-

-

(0.02)

(0.02)

As at December 31, 2020

-

32.03

1.82

33.85

Net carrying value as at December 31, 2019

31.80

6.72

1.22

7.94

Net carrying value as at December 31, 2020

31.80

1.33

1.63

2.96

Goodwill impairment testing
The carrying amount of goodwill as at December 31, 2020 and as at December 31, 2019 has been attributed to power grids
business as a Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’). The Company tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment on an annual
basis. The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations which require the use of assumptions.
The calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the management. An average of the
range of each assumption used as at December 31, 2020 and as at December 31, 2019 is mentioned below.			
Growth rate

5% - 6%

Operating margins

6% - 13%

Discount rate

9% - 10%

The above discount rate is based on the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) which represents the weighted average
return attributable to all the assets of the CGU. These estimates are likely to differ from future actual results of operations and
cash flows.				
Based on the above assessment, there has been no impairment of goodwill. 				

140

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

6.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Loans
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Non-current

Current

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
10.29

6.22

2.36

2.86

Security deposits which have significant increase in
credit risk

-

-

0.71

-

Less: Impairment allowance on security deposits which
have significant increase in credit risk

-

-

0.71

-

-

-

-

-

Loans to employees

-

-

3.61

3.80

10.29

6.22

5.97

6.66

Security deposits

7.

Non-current tax asset (net)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020
Advance income-tax (net of provision for current tax)

8.

December 31, 2019

3.75

11.53

3.75

11.53

Income tax
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

The major components of income tax expense for the year/period:
Statement of profit and loss:
Current tax

60.12

Deferred tax credit

(23.64)

(6.94)

36.48

55.26

Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss

62.20

Other comprehensive income (‘OCI’)
Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:

2.03

(0.17)

2.03

(0.17)

Accounting profit before income tax

136.28

220.65

At India's statutory tax rate of 25.17percent for the year ended December 31, 2020
and for the period ended December 31, 2019

34.30

55.54

Income tax expense / (credit) to OCI
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate:

Adjustments in respect of current income tax
Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes
Impact of change in income tax rate*
Income tax expense at effective tax rate of 26.77percent (December 31, 2019 : 25.04%)

2.18

2.78

-

(3.06)

36.48

55.26

The Company elected to exercise the option permitted under Section 115BAA of the Income-tax Act, 1961 as introduced by the Taxation Laws
(Amendment) Ordinance, 2019. Accordingly, the Company recognized Provision for income tax for the period ended December 31, 2019 and
re-measured its deferred tax assets basis the rate prescribed in the said section.
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) relates to the following:
Fixed asset : Impact of difference between tax depreciation and depreciation /
amortization charged for the financial reporting

(63.74)

(67.97)

Provision for doubtful debts and advances

54.08

47.47

Demerger related expenses

12.22

7.49

Expenditure debited to the statement of profit and loss but allowable for tax purpose
in subsequent years

19.29

8.85
(4.16)

Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)

21.85

Deferred tax assets

85.59

63.81

Deferred tax liabilities

(63.74)

(67.97)

Deferred tax assets/(liabilities), net

21.85

(4.16)

Reconciliation of deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (net)
Opening balance as at the commencement of the year
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (refer note 38(a))

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

(4.16)

-

-

(10.95)

Transition adjustment due to adoption of Ind AS 116 “Leases” (refer note 35(b)) (net of tax)

0.34

-

Tax income/(expense) during the year/period recognised in profit or loss

23.64

6.94

Tax income/(expense) during the year/period recognised in OCI

2.03

(0.17)

Tax income/(expense) during the year/period recognised in retained earnings

25.67

6.77

Closing balance

21.85

(4.16)

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

9.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

141

Other non-current assets
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
Capital advances

5.08

1.85

Advances recoverable which have significant increase in credit risk

1.89

1.94

Less: Impairment allowance on advances recoverable which have significant increase in credit risk

1.89

1.94

-

-

5.08

1.85

10. Inventories (valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

Raw materials and components (includes goods in transit goods of ` 40.59 crores
(December 31, 2019: `109.08 crores))

270.45

332.88

Work-in-progress

211.79

146.42

Finished goods

10.72

12.15

Traded goods

0.28

0.49

Stores and spares

1.84

1.26

495.08

493.20

During the year ended December 31, 2020, `15.05 crores (for period ended December 31, 2019, `1.71 crores) has been recognised
as an expense in relation to inventory being carried at net realisable value.			

11. Trade receivables
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Non-current

Current

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

Considered good

-

-

1,584.50

1,782.85

Trade receivables which have significant increase in
credit risk

-

-

121.46

107.91

87.61

88.73

-

-

87.61

88.73

1,705.96

1,890.76

-

-

121.46

107.91

87.61

88.73

-

-

-

-

1,584.50

1,782.85

Unsecured

Trade receivables - credit impaired
Less: Impairment allowance
(allowance for bad and doubtful debts)
Trade receivables which have significant increase in
credit risk
Trade receivables - credit impaired

1. Trade receivables from related parties (refer note 39).				
2. No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other person.
Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director
or a member.				
3. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 0 to 90 days.				
4. Refer note 32(c)(iv) for details pertaining to credit risk.				
5. Refer note 37(b) for details pertaining to contract balances.				

12. Cash and cash equivalents
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019
188.04

Balances with banks
- on current accounts

301.04

Cheques on hand / remittance in transit

17.91

-

Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows

318.95

188.04

Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities:				
The changes in liabilities arising from financing activities is on account of cash flow changes
only and there are no non-cash changes.				

142

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

13. Other current financial assets

(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

Deposits with customers

8.52

11.88

Contract revenue in excess of billing/unbilled revenue (refer note 37(b))

60.82

66.45

Contract revenue in excess of billing/unbilled revenue which have significant increase in
credit risk

3.22

-

Less: impairment allowance on contract revenue in excess of billing/unbilled revenue which
have significant increase in credit risk

3.22

-

-

-

Other receivables

14.55

22.95

Mark to market gain on forward contracts*

28.36

13.01

Mark to market gain on embedded derivatives*

8.38

11.29

120.63

125.58

* Mark to market gain is identified and accounted based on the underlying contracts. The derivatives are recognised at fair value through statement of
profit and loss.

14. Other current assets

(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

Prepaid expenses

15.59

1.70

Contract assets (refer note 37(b))

125.99

136.95

Advances other than capital advances

48.96

38.57

Balance with government authorities

58.29

11.33

248.83

188.55

15. Equity
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Share capital
a.

Equity shares
Number of shares

Amount

250,000

0.05

Authorised share capital
At February 19, 2019
Increase during the period

49,750,000

9.95

At December 31, 2019

50,000,000

10.00

50,000,000

10.00

Number of shares

Amount

Changes during the year
At December 31, 2020
b.

Issued equity share capital
Equity shares of ` 2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid up
At February 19, 2019*

50,000

0.01

Changes in equity share capital (refer note 15(g) below)

42,331,675

8.47

At December 31, 2019

42,381,675

8.48

Changes during the year

-

-

At December 31, 2020

42,381,675

8.48

*On incorporation of the Company, the equity shares were held by ABB India Limited. (refer note 38(a)).			

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

c.

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

143

Terms/rights attached to equity shares
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 2/- per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled
to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian Rupees.			
The Board of directors have recommended dividend of ` 2 per equity share for the year ended December 31, 2020.
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General
Meeting. 		
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the
Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares
held by the shareholders.			

d.

Details of shareholders holding more than 5 percent of the shares in the Company as at December 31, 2020 and as at
December 31, 2019

Name of the shareholders
Equity shares of ` 2 each, fully paid up
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited - the holding company

Number of shares

% of holding

31,786,256

75.00%

As per records of the Company and other declarations received from shareholders, the above shareholding represents both legal
and beneficial ownerships of shares.
e.

Shares held by holding/ultimate holding company as at December 31, 2020 and as at December 31, 2019
Out of the equity shares issued by the Company, shares held by its holding company, ultimate holding company and their
subsidiaries/associates are as below:			
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Name of the shareholders
Equity shares of ` 2 each, fully paid up
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited - the holding company

f.

Number of shares

Amount

3,17,86,256

6.36

3,17,86,256

6.36

During the year an open offer for acquisition of upto 10,595,419 fully paid equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each of the
Company from Public Shareholders was made by ABB Switzerland Ltd (“Acquirer 1”) along with Hitachi, Ltd. (“Acquirer 2”),
Hitachi ABB Power Grids AG (previously named ABB Management Holding AG) (“PAC 1”) and ABB Ltd (“PAC 2”) and (along
with PAC 1 the “PACs”) acting in their capacity as persons acting in concert with the Acquirers.
As set out in the Letter of Offer dated September 2, 2020,​while Hitachi Ltd. had acquired indirect control over the Company
on and from July 1, 2020, the ownership interest of 75 percent of equity shares​of the Company was continued to be held by
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd, until ​the anticipated transfer ​of such ownership interest to Hitachi ABB Power Grids AG (majority
shareholding of which is owned by Hitachi, Ltd.), as part of a delayed closing of the transaction in India.​Such delayed closing
and transfer of the 75 percent of equity shares of the Company to Hitachi ABB Power Grids AG took place on February 5, 2021.
Pursuant to the Open Offer concluded on September 30, 2020, 178 equity shares in demat form were acquired by ABB
Switzerland Ltd (presently lying in Escrow account and to be subsequently moved to the demat account of ABB Switzerland
Ltd). Further, apart from the 178 equity shares acquired in demat form, 1 equity share tendered in the Open Offer in physical
form was transferred to ABB Switzerland Ltd during the Q4 2020 (​presently held in physical form as on December 31, 2020, is
due to be converted into demat form and credited into the demat account of ABB Switzerland Ltd).“

g.

Aggregate number of shares issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years immediately
preceding the reporting date:			
On December 24, 2019, the Company issued 42,381,675 number of fully paid equity shares having face value of ` 2 each to the
existing equity shareholders of ABB India Limited in the proportion of 1 share for every 5 shares held, pursuant to the scheme
of arrangement. Further, 50,000 number of shares issued to the ABB India Limited at the time of incorporation of the Company
has been cancelled as per the aforesaid scheme (refer note 38(a)).

144

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

16. Other equity
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020
a

Opening balance
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (refer note 38(a))
Closing balance
b

9.80

9.80

9.80

-

-

149.93

Transition adjustment due to adoption of Ind AS 116 “Leases” (refer note 35(b))
(net of tax)

(1.06)

165.39

Net profit for the year/period

99.80

Other comprehensive income (net of tax)

(6.04)

0.50

Closing balance

408.52

315.82

Amalgamation adjustment deficit account
Opening balance
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (refer note 38(a))
Closing balance

(1.56)

-

-

(1.56)

(1.56)

(1.56)

Capital reserve
Opening balance
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (refer note 38(a))
Closing balance

e

-

-

315.82

Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (refer note 38(a))

d

9.80

Retained earnings
Opening balance

c

December 31, 2019

Securities premium

0.18

-

-

0.18

0.18

0.18

General reserve
Opening balance

507.10

-

-

507.10

Closing balance

507.10

507.10

Total other equity

924.04

831.34

Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (refer note 38(a))

Nature and purpose of other reserves
					
a) Securities premium					
Securities premium acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement shall be utilised in accordance with the provisions of
Companies Act, 2013.
b)

Retained earnings
Retained earnings are the profits of the Company earned till date net of appropriations/distributions, includes amount
acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement and other adjustments permitted as per the applicable regulations and
accounting standards.

c)

Amalgamation adjustment deficit account
Amalgamation adjustment deﬁcit account is the deficit between the carrying value of assets, liabilities and reserves
transferred to the Company and the consideration discharged by way of the New Equity Shares issued to the shareholders
of ABB India Limited pursuant to the demerger of Power Grid Business from ABB India Limited (refer note 38(a)).

d)

Capital reserve
Capital reserve is acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement.

e)

General reserve
General reserve is acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement. The Company can use this reserve for payment of
dividend and issue of fully paid-up shares. As General reserve is created by transfer of one component of equity to another
and is not an item of other comprehensive income, items included in the General reserve will not be subsequently
reclassified to statement of profit and loss.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

145

17. Other financial liabilities
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Non-current

Current

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

December 31, 2020

0.87

1.19

-

-

Payable towards purchase of fixed assets

-

-

6.07

12.09

Employee related payables

-

-

41.40

31.72

Interest accrued but not due

-

-

-

12.23

Mark to market loss on embedded derivatives*

-

-

15.25

8.98

Mark to market loss on forward contracts*

-

-

4.54

9.07

Other payables

-

-

47.67

59.43

0.87

1.19

114.93

133.52

Security deposits received

December 31, 2019

* Mark to market gain is identified and accounted based on the underlying contracts. The derivatives are recognised at fair value
through statement of profit and loss.

18. Borrowings
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

-

347.62

-

347.62

Loans from related party (Unsecured)
Payable to ABB India Limited

i.) Loan from related party carried an interest rate of 10 percent. The loan has been repaid in full on February 11, 2020.

19. Trade payables
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Dues to micro and small enterprises*

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

40.94

24.69

40.94

24.69

Dues to creditors other than micro and small enterprises
Acceptances
Other trade payables

161.45

213.65

1,375.59

1,138.76

1,537.04

1,352.41

1,577.98

1,377.10

The Company has amounts due to Micro and Small Enterprises under The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
(MSMED Act) as at December 31, 2020 and as at December 31, 2019.		

(i)

(ii)

The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier at
each accounting year/period
Principal amount

38.10

22.99

Interest

0.19

0.32

Principal amount

-

-

Interest

-

-

The amount of interest paid by the Company along with the amounts of the payment
made to the supplier beyond the appointed day for each accounting year/period

(iii)

The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment
(which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year)

0.95

1.02

(iv)

The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting
year/period

1.14

1.34

(v)

The amount of further interest remaining due and payable for the earlier years

1.70

0.36

(vi)

The amount (including interest) due as at each accounting year/period

40.94

24.69

The above disclosures are provided by the Company based on the information available with the Company in respect of the
registration status of its vendors/suppliers.

146

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

20. Other current liabilities
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

Billing in excess of contract revenue (refer note 37(b))

358.72

246.70

Statutory dues payable

14.00

37.58

Advance from customer

276.79

313.59

649.51

597.87

21. Provisions
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

Provisions for employee benefits
Gratuity (refer note 31)

13.16

3.76

Leave benefits

17.72

20.42

Other provisions
Warranties

106.56

92.43

Loss orders

33.23

22.73

Provision for income tax (net)

17.57

-

188.24

139.34

Nature of provisions:
					
i
Warranties: The Company provides warranties for its products, systems and services, undertaking to repair or replace
the items that fail to perform satisfactorily during the warranty period. Provision represents the amount of the expected
cost based on technical evaluation and past experience of meeting such obligations. It is expected that this expenditure
will be incurred over the contractual warranty period.
ii

Loss orders: A provision for expected loss on construction contracts is recognised when it is probable that the contract
costs will exceed total contract revenue. For all other contracts loss order provisions are made when the unavoidable
costs of meeting the obligation under the contract exceed the currently estimated economic benefits.

Details of changes in provisions during the year (Figures in brackets are in respect of the previous period)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Class of provisions

As at
January
1, 2020

Warranties
Loss orders

Transfer pursuant
to scheme of
arrangement

Additions

Amounts
used

Unused Amounts
reversed

As at
December
31, 2020

92.43

-

32.69

5.15

13.41

106.56

-

(84.84)

(18.08)

(7.19)

(3.30)

(92.43)

22.73

-

28.77

16.96

1.31

33.23

-

(30.09)

(12.57)

(19.91)

(0.02)

(22.73)

22. Revenue from operations (net)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

Revenue from contracts with customers
2,337.90

1,858.16

Revenue from execution of contracts for projects and services

Sale of products

938.84

1,284.37

Sale of services

71.00

47.29

3,347.74

3,189.82
10.25

Other operating revenues
Scrap sales

14.58

Commission income

12.14

1.20

Income from development services

29.38

26.93

Miscellaneous income

16.60

7.86

72.70

46.24

3,420.44

3,236.06

Revenue from operations (net)

*Also refer note 37 and 39

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

147

23. Other income
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Exchange and commodity rate difference (net)

For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

16.94

-

Interest income
Interest on deposits with bank

1.18

-

Interest on security deposit and others

0.38

0.47

18.50

0.47

24. Cost of raw materials, components consumed and project bought-outs
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

Raw material and components consumed
Inventory at the beginning of the year
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement
Add : Purchases during the year/period
Less : Inventory at the end of the year/period

332.88

-

-

254.22

1,664.19

1,609.10

270.45

332.88

1,726.62

1,530.44

25. (Increase)/decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

Opening stock/transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement
- Finished goods

12.15

13.28

- Work-in-progress

146.42

200.86

- Stock-in-trade

0.49

0.47

159.06

214.61

Closing stock
- Finished goods

10.72

12.15

- Work-in-progress

211.79

146.42

- Stock-in-trade

0.28

0.49

222.79

159.06

(63.73)

55.55

26. Employee benefits expense
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Salaries, wages and bonus

For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

319.94

223.96

Gratuity expense (refer note 31)

5.23

4.70

Provident fund expense (refer note 31)

15.36

3.45

Contribution to superannuation and other funds

10.66

7.48

Staff welfare expenses

15.06

10.85

Training, recruitment and transfer expenses

3.16

4.76

369.41

255.20

148

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

27. Depreciation and amortisation expense
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

Depreciation of tangible assets (refer note 3)

60.63

43.65

Amortisation of intangible assets (refer note 5)

5.76

4.76

Depreciation of right-of-use assets (refer note 3)

10.78

-

77.17

48.41

28. Finance costs
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

Interest expenses

11.13

19.12

Bill discounting and other charges

7.04

7.26

Interest on lease liabilities (refer note 35(b))

2.27

-

20.44

26.38

29. Other expenses
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
18.21

Consumption of stores and spares

24.79

Packing expenses

10.51

7.96

Royalty and technology fees

150.20

129.92
79.59

Freight and forwarding

81.95

Postage and telephone

0.80

0.94

Commission (other than sole selling agent)

4.64

3.42

Power and fuel

52.14

42.58

Travelling and conveyance

17.97

35.83
15.95

Insurance

24.87

Rates and taxes (net)

2.19

3.15

Rent

6.68

9.76

Repairs and maintenance
Buildings

1.83

1.33

Plant and machinery

16.94

15.27

Others
Provision for doubtful debts and advances / Bad debts / advances written off

3.69

2.65

17.33

5.21

Loss on sale of fixed assets (net)

0.65

0.34

Printing and stationery

1.52

1.09

Bank charges

17.11

1.39

Legal and professional*

37.09

13.33
35.26

Trade-mark fees

43.59

Corporate social responsibility expenditure (refer note 40)

4.42

-

Information technology expenses

98.49

56.40

-

2.01

Exchange and commodity rate difference (net)
Director's fees and commission

1.20

-

Services from third parties

39.60

28.85

Testing and inspection charges

6.92

8.26

Seminar and publicity expenses

0.86

3.09

Group management fees

57.47

66.03

Miscellaneous

47.30

29.55

772.75

617.37

* Includes auditor's remuneration (exclusive of goods and service tax) towards the following:
Statutory audit fee (inclusive of out-of-pocket expenses)

0.48

0.48

Tax audit fee

0.27

0.27

Limited review fee

0.36

0.36

Group audit fee/one time certification fee

0.14

0.47

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

149

30. Earning per share (EPS)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

99.80

165.39

4,23,81,675
4,23,81,675

3,70,06,224
3,70,06,224

23.55

44.69

The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS
computations:
Earnings
Profit attributable to equity shareholders
Shares
Weighted average number of Equity Shares outstanding during the year/period - basic
Dilutive effect on shares
Weighted average number of Equity Shares outstanding during the year/period - diluted
Earnings per share of par value `2/- each - Basic and diluted (in `)

31. Gratuity and other post-employment benefit plans
The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan, had a provident fund plan and is in process of setting up the trusts to manage the
aforesaid plans.										
(a)

Gratuity plan:
Gratuity is payable to all eligible employees of the Company as per the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 or as per the
Company’s scheme, whichever is higher. The plan assets are held by Asea Brown Boveri Ltd Employees Gratuity Fund on behalf
of the Company.
Under the Act, every employee who has completed five years or more of service gets gratuity on departure at 15 days salary (last
drawn salary) for each completed year of service. The level of benefits provided depends on the member’s length of service and salary
at retirement age. The Gratuity scheme provides for a lump sum payment made on exit either by way of retirement, death, disability
or voluntary withdrawal. The benefits are defined on the basis of final salary and the period of service and paid as lump sum at exit.
The maximum limit considered for payment is ` 0.20 crore.
Assumptions relating to future salary increases, attrition, interest rate for discount and overall expected rate of return on assets have
been considered based on relevant economic factors such as inflation, market growth and other factors applicable to the period over
which the obligation is expected to be settled.
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

13.16
13.16

3.76
3.76

Gratuity
The following table sets out movement in defined benefits liability and the amount
recognised in the financial statements:
Gratuity provision
Total

i

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Defined benefit Fair value of
Benefit
obligation plan assets
liability
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets :
As at February 19, 2019
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement		

-

-

-

61.81

55.32

6.49

Gratuity cost charged to profit or loss:
Service cost

3.54

-

3.54

Net interest expense

3.35

2.19

1.16

Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss (Note 26)

6.89

2.19

4.70

-

4.13

(4.13)

Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions

2.12

-

2.12

Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments

1.34

-

1.34

Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income

3.46

4.13

(0.67)
(6.76)

Remeasurement (gains) / losses in other comprehensive income:
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)

-

6.76

Benefits paid

Contributions by employer

(2.81)

(2.81)

-

As at December 31, 2019

69.35

65.59

3.76

Service cost

5.12

-

5.12

Net interest expense

4.58

4.47

0.11

Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss (Note 26)

9.70

4.47

5.23

150

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Remeasurement (gains) / losses in other comprehensive income:
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income

5.29
5.54
10.83

2.76
2.76

(2.76)
5.29
5.54
8.07

Contributions by employer
Benefits paid
As at December 31, 2020

(5.46)
84.42

(1.56)
71.26

(3.90)
13.16

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
ii

iii

iv

v

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

Present value of funded obligations

84.42

69.35

Fair value of plan assets

71.26

65.59

Net funded obligation

(13.16)

(3.76)

Net defined benefit liability recognised in balance sheet

(13.16)

(3.76)

Expense recognised in profit or loss (refer note 26)

5.12

3.54

Current service cost

0.11

1.16

Interest cost

5.23

4.70

Amount recognized in balance sheet		

Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income
Actuarial loss on defined benefit obligation

10.83

3.46

Return on plan assets excluding interest income

(2.76)

(4.13)

8.07

(0.67)

Government of India Securities (Central and State)

4.86%

8.28%

High quality corporate bonds (including public sector bonds)

3.85%

6.45%

Cash

5.97%

17.49%

The major categories of plan assets of the fair value of the total plan assets are as follows:
Investments quoted in active markets

vi

Scheme of insurance - conventional products

85.32%

67.78%

Total

100.00%

100.00%

Discount rate

6.00%

6.90%

Future salary increases

7.75%

7.75%

Age 20-24 - 12%

Age 20-24 - 12%

Age 25-34 - 9%

Age 25-34 - 9%

Age 35-44 - 7%

Age 35-44 - 7%

Age 45-54 - 4%

Age 45-54 - 4%

The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity obligations are shown below:

Employee turnover

Thereafter
Mortality rate
vii

2%

Mortality (2006-08) Ult.

Thereafter

2%

Mortality (2006-08) Ult.

The following payments are expected contributions to the defined benefit plan in future years
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)

13.16

3.76

Between 2 and 5 years

26.27

31.08

Beyond 5 years

65.75

45.07

Total expected payments

105.18

79.91

The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 8 years (December 31, 2019: 10 years)
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
As at December 31, 2020
Discount
rate
viii

As at December 31, 2019

Future salary
increases

Discount
rate

Future salary
increases

A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption is as hown below:
Assumptions
Sensitivity analysis
1 percent increase

(6.35)

7.13

(5.08)

5.73

1 percent decrease

7.33

(6.31)

5.83

(5.09)

Impact on defined benefit obligation
The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation as a result
of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The sensitivity analyses are based on a change in a
significant assumption, keeping all other assumptions constant. The sensitivity analyses may not be representative of an actual change in the
defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation from one another.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

(b)

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

151

Provident fund
Subsequent to the demerger as detailed in note 38(a), the Company continued to participate in the provident fund plan
managed by the ABB India Employees’ Provident Fund Trust, a provident fund trust for ABB India Limited employees till
November 30, 2019. Subject to the formation of its own trust, subsequent to the November 30, 2019, the same has been
remitted to the Regional provident fund organisation (‘RPFO’).
The plan assets as at November 30, 2019 relating to Company’s employees are held by ‘ABB India Employees’ Provident
Fund Trust’ managed provident fund plan. The Company is in the process of transferring the same to the RPFO. The
Company was treating its contribution to ABB India Employees Provident Fund Trust till November 30, 2019 as a defined
benefit plan during the period ended December 31, 2019. However, in the current year, the aforesaid trust guaranteed any
shortfall in the plan assets (interest and principal). Accordingly, the management of the Company has treated the Provident
fund plan as the defined contribution plan and no further disclosures have been made in relation to provident fund plan
in the current year and for the comparative period.
The Contribution by employee and employer together with interest are payable at the time of separation from service or
retirement whichever is earlier.

32. Financial Instruments
This section gives an overview of the significance of financial instruments for the Company and provides additional
information on balance sheet items that contain financial instruments.
The details of significant accounting policies, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis
on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity
instrument are disclosed in the financial statements.
A

Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
The carrying amount of all financial assets and liabilities appearing in the financial statements is reasonable approximation
of fair value. The following tables presents the carrying value and fair value of each category of financial assets and
liabilities.
The Company’s assets and liabilities which are measured at amortised cost for which fair values are disclosed:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Carrying and Fair Value
Particulars

As at
December 31, 2020

As at
December 31, 2019

Financial Assets at amortised cost :
Loans (refer note 6)
Trade receivables (refer note 11)

16.26

12.88

1,584.50

1,782.85

Cash and cash equivalents (refer note 12)

318.95

188.04

Other financial assets (refer note 13)

83.89

101.28

36.74

24.30

2,040.34

2,109.35

Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss :
Derivative instruments (refer note 13)
Total financial assets
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Borrowings (refer note 18)
Trade payables (refer note 19)

-

347.62

1,577.98

1,377.10

Lease liabilities (refer note 35(b))

39.07

-

Other financial liability (refer note 17)

96.01

116.66

19.79

18.05

1,732.85

1,859.43

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss :
Derivative instruments (refer note 17)
Total financial liabilities

152

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Valuation technique and significant unobservable inputs:		
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are (a)
recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the financial
statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has classified
its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level follows
underneath the table.
(i)

(ii)

The management assessed the trade receivables, trade payables, cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets and
financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.		
				
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a
current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions
were used to estimate the fair values:				

(iii) Management uses its best judgement in estimating the fair value of its financial instruments. However, there are inherent
limitations in any estimation technique. Therefore, for substantially all financial instruments, the fair value estimates presented
above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company could have realised or paid in sale transactions as of
respective dates. As such, fair value of financial instruments subsequent to the reporting dates may be different from the
amounts reported at each reporting date.						
(iv) The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with banks/financial institutions. Foreign currency forward contracts
are valued using valuation techniques which employs the use of market observable inputs using present value calculations.
The model incorporates various inputs including the deal specific fundamental, market conditions, maturity period, transaction
size, comparable trades, foreign currency spot and forward rates.						
(v) Embedded foreign currency are measured similarly to the foreign currency forward contracts. The embedded derivatives are
foreign currency forward contracts which are separated from long-term sales contracts and purchase contracts where the
transaction currency differs from the functional currencies of the involved parties. These contracts require physical delivery
and will be held for the purpose of the delivery of the commodity in accordance with the buyers’ expected sale requirements.
These contracts have embedded foreign exchange derivatives that are required to be separated.				
		
B Fair value hierarchy
The following table presents the fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as at
December 31, 2020:						
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

Amount

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Derivative instruments (refer note 13) - As at December 31, 2020

36.74

-

36.74

-

Derivative instruments (refer note 13) - As at December 31, 2019

24.30

-

24.30

-

Derivative instruments (refer note 17) - As at December 31, 2020

19.79

-

19.79

-

Derivative instruments (refer note 17) - As at December 31, 2019

18.05

-

18.05

-

Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss :

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss :

(ii) There have been no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 for the period ended December 31, 2020 and December
31, 2019.
C

Financial risk management						
The Company’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to support its operations. The Company’s principal financial assets include
trade and other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents that derive directly from its operations.
The Company is exposed to market risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The Company’s senior
management oversees the management of these risks. The Company’s senior management is supported by a Risk
management committee that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the
Company. The Risk management committee provides assurance to the Company’s senior management that the Company’s
financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured
and managed in accordance with the Company’s policies and risk objectives. All derivative activities for risk management
purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills, experience and supervision. It is the Company’s
policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes may be undertaken. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees
policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

(i)

Market risk

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

153

					

		Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes
in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such
as equity price risk and commodity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, trade
payables, deposits, investments, trade receivables, other financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
		
Commodity contracts
		 The Company uses commodity future contracts to hedge risk against fluctuation in commodity prices. The following are
outstanding future contracts entered into by the Company as on December 31, 2020.
Year

Commodity

Number of contracts

Contractual quantity

As at December 2020

Copper

30

1029 MT

Buy /Sell
Buy

As at December 2020

Aluminum

9

28 MT

Buy

As at December 2019

Copper

23

783 MT

Buy

As at December 2019

Aluminum

2

74 MT

Buy

					
(ii) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of
changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates
primarily to the Company’s operating activities. The Company’s risk management policy is to hedge foreign currency
exposures above certain thresholds.
The Company operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency
transactions. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities
denominated in a currency that is not Company’s functional currency (`).
(a)

Unhedged in foreign currency exposure

The following table analyses the unhedged portion of foreign currency exposure:
Particulars

SEK

BTN

BDT

AUD

ZAR

Others

Foreign currency (In Crores)

2.71

15.42

1.73

0.11

0.30

1.36

Indian Rupees (In Crores)

24.24

15.42

1.47

6.41

1.47

0.72

1 percent increase

0.24

0.15

0.01

0.06

0.01

0.01

1 percent decrease

(0.24)

(0.15)

(0.01)

(0.06)

(0.01)

(0.01)

Foreign currency (In Crores)

0.79

8.76

7.05

0.02

0.57

7.73

Indian Rupees (In Crores)

6.04

8.76

5.81

1.12

2.88

3.19

1 percent increase

0.06

0.09

0.06

0.01

0.03

0.03

1 percent decrease

(0.06)

(0.09)

(0.06)

(0.01)

(0.03)

(0.03)

Particulars

USD

CHF

CNY

BTN

BDT

Others

Receivables
As at December 31, 2020

As at December 31, 2019

Payables
As at December 31, 2020
Foreign currency (In Crores)

1.00

0.79

1.60

1.73

5.01

4.76

Indian Rupees (In Crores)

72.99

65.52

17.88

1.73

4.25

13.71

1 percent increase

0.73

0.66

0.18

0.02

0.04

0.14

1 percent decrease

(0.73)

(0.66)

(0.18)

(0.02)

(0.04)

(0.14)

0.92

3.88

11.74

6.84

Indian Rupees (In Crores)

-

-

9.38

3.88

9.67

4.48

1 percent increase

-

-

0.09

0.04

0.10

0.04

1 percent decrease

-

-

(0.09)

(0.04)

(0.10)

(0.04)

As at December 31, 2019
Foreign currency (In Crores)

154

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

(b)

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Forward contracts outstanding:
December 31, 2020

Currency

Amount in
Foreign
currency crores

Number of
contracts

December 31, 2019
(` in Crores)

Number of
contracts

Amount in
Foreign
currency crores

(` in Crores)

Exports
AUD

1

0.02

1.01

7

0.09

4.40

CHF

27

0.46

38.61

12

0.34

26.79

EUR

36

0.45

40.93

53

0.88

73.52

SEK

2

2.22

18.55

4

3.43

32.19

USD

139

3.51

273.76

154

2.20

158.33

ZAR

1

0.14

0.62

-

-

373.48

December 31, 2020
Currency

295.23

December 31, 2019

Number of
contracts

Amount in
Foreign
currency crores

(` in Crores)

Number of
contracts

Amount in
Foreign
currency crores

(` in Crores)

26

0.65

53.36

33

0.70

52.61

Imports
CHF
EUR

41

0.63

56.70

88

1.11

93.15

SEK

35

9.90

81.96

67

14.33

116.27

USD

57

0.84

63.72

159

2.61

188.72

CNY

25

0.74

8.23

43

2.68

27.43

CNH

-

-

-

1

0.00

263.97

(iii)

0.02
478.20

Interest rate risk

Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of
changes in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to the
Company’s outstanding payable to ABB India Limited and working capital facility obtained from banks.		
				
The exposure of the Company’s borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period are
as follows:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

Payable to ABB India Limited (refer note 18)

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

-

347.62

The above loan carried an interest rate of 10 percent. The interest rate was fixed, hence there was no interest rate risk
applicable for the Company. The loan was repaid in full on February 11, 2020 and there was no working capital loan
outstanding as at December 31, 2020.						
(iv)

Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract,
leading to a financial loss. Financial instruments that are subject to credit risk and concentration thereof principally
consist of loan receivables, trade receivables, derivatives, cash and cash equivalents, bank balances and other
financial assets of the Company, as well as credit exposure to clients.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of the financial assets. The objective of managing
counterparty credit risk is to prevent losses in financial assets. The Company assesses the credit quality of the
counterparties, taking into account their financial position, past experience and other factors.			
			

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

(a)

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

155

Trade receivables and financial assets

Trade receivables consists of a large number of customers spread across diverse industries.
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivable. Under
the simplified approach, the Company tracks changes in credit risk. Further, it recognizes impairment loss allowance
based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from initial recognition.					
The Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on the portfolio of trade receivables.
The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivable
and is adjusted for forward looking estimates. At year end, the historical observed default rates are updated and
changes in the forward-looking estimates are analyzed.
Individual receivables which are known to be uncollectible are written off by reducing the carrying amount of trade
receivable and the amount of the loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss within other expenses.
Specific allowance for loss has also been provided by the management based on expected recovery on individual
customers.						
The provision provided in books for trade receivables overdue:						
					
Reconciliation of loss allowance		
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

December 31, 2020

Balance at the beginning of the period
Transfer as part of scheme of arrangement
Add: Additional ECL provision / (reversal)
Add: Additional provision

December 31, 2019

196.64

-

-

200.92

-

(2.98)

47.01

20.67

Less: Utilisation/reversal

34.58

21.97

Balance at the end of the period

209.07

196.64

Management does not expect any significant loss from non-performance by counterparties on credit granted during
the financial year that has not been provided for.						
(b) Other than trade receivables and financial assets			
Management believes that the parties from which the receivables are due have strong capacity to meet the obligations
and risk of default is negligible or nil and accordingly no significant provision for expected credit loss has been
recorded.
c) Credit risk from balances with bank and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department
in accordance with the Company’s policy.						
		
(v)
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk
management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The
Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank
overdrafts. Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the
availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities to meet obligations when due and
to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Company maintains flexibility
in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines.						
					

156

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual
undiscounted payments.							
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
As at December 31, 2020
Particulars

On demand

Less than 1 year

More than 1 year

Total

-

-

-

-

Non-derivatives
Borrowings
Other financial liability

-

95.14

0.87

96.01

Lease liabilities

-

14.43

33.39

47.82

Trade payables

-

1,577.98

-

1,577.98

Total non-derivative liabilities

-

1,687.55

34.26

1,721.81

Embedded derivatives

-

15.25

-

15.25

Foreign currency forward contracts

-

4.54

-

4.54

Total derivative liabilities

-

19.79

-

19.79

Derivatives (net settled) (refer note 17)

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
As at December 31, 2019
Particulars

On demand

Less than 1 year

More than 1 year

Total

Non-derivatives
Borrowings

-

347.62

-

347.62

Other financial liability

-

115.47

1.19

116.66

Lease liabilities

-

-

-

-

Trade payables

-

1,377.10

-

1,377.10

Total non-derivative liabilities

-

1,840.19

1.19

1,841.38

8.98

Derivatives (net settled) (refer note 17)
Embedded derivatives

-

8.98

-

Foreign currency forward contracts

-

9.07

-

9.07

Total derivative liabilities

-

18.05

-

18.05

33. Capital management
For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital, securities premium and
all other equity reserves attributable to the shareholders of the Company. Net debt includes borrowings, trade payables,
lease liabilities and other financial liability net of cash and cash equivalents. The primary objective of the Company’s capital
management is to maximise the shareholder value.
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the
requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend
payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Company monitors capital using a gearing
ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt.
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

December 31, 2020

Borrowings

-

347.62

1,577.98

1,377.10

Trade payables

December 31, 2019

Lease liabilities

39.07

-

Other financial liability

115.80

134.71

Less: Cash and cash equivalents

318.95

188.04

Net debt

1,413.90

1,671.39

Total equity

932.52

839.82

2,346.42

2,511.21

60%

67%

Capital and net debt
Gearing ratio

In order to achieve this overall objective, the Company’s capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure that it meets
financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure requirements. No changes were
made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended December 31, 2020.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

157

34. Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

Contingent liabilities (Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts)
Other matters

55.71

55.92

55.71

55.92

The Company does not have any contingent assets at the balance sheet date.
The Company is contesting the demands and the management believes that its position will likely be upheld in the various
appellate authorities/courts. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of this proceeding will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial position.
In respect of the above contingent liabilities, the future cash outflows are determinable only on receipt of judgement pending
at various forums/authorities.
The Supreme court of India in the month of February 2019 had passed a judgement relating to definition of wages under the
Provident Fund Act, 1952. The management is of the view that there are interpretative challenges on the application of the
judgement retrospectively. Based on the legal advice and in the absence of reliable measurement of the provision for earlier
periods, the Company has made a provision for provident fund contribution pursuant to the judgement only from the date of
the Supreme Court Order. The Company will evaluate its position and update its provision, if required, on receiving further
clarity on the subject. the Company does not expect any material impact of the same.

35. Commitments
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

(a)

December
31, 2019

59.42

50.66

Capital commitments
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on account of capital commitments and not
provided for (net of advances)

(b)

December
31, 2020

Leases
Effective January 1, 2020, the Company has adopted Ind AS 116, Leases (which replaces the earlier Lease standard) under the modified
retrospective approach. Accordingly, the Company recorded the lease liability at the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted
at the incremental borrowing rate as on the date of transition and has measured right of use asset at an amount equal to lease liability, adjusted
for any related prepaid and accrued lease payments previously recognised. There is an impact of ` 1.06 crores (net of tax ` 0.34 crores)
on transition to Ind AS 116 on opening retained earnings as on January 1, 2020. The comparative information continues to be reported under
Ind AS 17.
The Company has lease contracts for building, leasehold land and vehicles used in its operations. Leases of building have lease terms between
2 and 9 years, land is 98 years and motor vehicles have lease terms between 4 and 5 years. The Company‘s obligations under its leases are
secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets. Generally, the Company is restricted from assigning and subleasing the leased assets and
some contracts require the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. Some of the lease agreements have escalation clause ranging from
0 percent to 6 percent (December 31, 2019: 5 percent to 15 percent). There are several lease contracts that include extension and termination
options and variable lease payments.
The Company also has certain leases of machinery/Computer equipments with lease terms of 12 months or less and with low value. The
Company applies the ‘short-term lease’ and ‘lease of low-value assets’ recognition exemptions for these leases. The Company applied a single
discount rate to leases of similar economic environment with a similar end date and excluded the initial direct costs from the measurement of the
right-of-use asset at the date of initial application.
Refer note 3 for carrying value of right of use assets recognised on date of transition and the movements thereof during the year ended December
31, 2020.

Below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the year:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars
As at January 1

December
31, 2020

December
31, 2019

-

-

On account of transition to Ind AS 116

31.74

-

Additions

16.86

-

Accretion of interest

2.27

-

Payments

(11.80)

-

As at December 31

39.07

-

			

158

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

December 31, 2020

December31, 2019

Current

11.87

-

Non-current

27.20

-

The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss for the year ended December 31, 2020:
Particulars
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets

10.78

Interest expense on lease liabilities

2.27

Expense relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets (included in other expenses)

6.68
19.73

The Company had total cash outflows for leases of ` 18.48 crores for the year ended December 31, 2020.
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 32.
The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 5 percent to 7 percent.
The lease liabilities as at January 1, 2020 can be reconciled to the operating lease commitments as of December 31, 2019,
as follows:
Particulars

Amount

Operating lease commitments as at December 31, 2019

36.07

Weighted average incremental borrowing rate as at January 1, 2020

6%
                    31.74

Discounted operating lease commitments as at January 1, 2020
Lease liabilities as at January 1, 2020

31.74

The effect of adoption Ind AS 116 as at January 1, 2020 (increase/(decrease)) is, as follows:
Particulars

Amount

Assets
Right of use assets

30.58

Prepaid rent adjustment

(0.24)

Total assets

30.34

Liabilities
Lease liability

(31.74)

Total liabilities

(31.74)

Total adjustment on equity
Retained earnings

(1.40)

Tax impact

0.34

Retained earnings (net of tax)

(1.06)

36. Segment information
An operating segment is a component that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur
expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the other components, whose operating
results are regularly reviewed by the Company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) to make decisions about resource
allocation and performance assessment and for which discrete financial information is available. The Company is engaged
in the business relating to products, projects and services for electricity transmission and related activities. Accordingly,
the Company’s activities and business is reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker from an overall business
perspective, rather than reviewing its products/services as individual standalone components. Thus, the Company has only
one operating segment, and has no reportable segment in accordance with Ind AS- 108 ‘Operating Segments’.
(i)

The entity wide disclosures as required by Ind AS-108 are as follows:
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Description
For the year ended
December 31, 2020
Sale of products
Revenue from execution of contracts for projects and services

For the period from
February 19, 2019
to December 31, 2019

2,337.90

1,858.16

938.84

1,284.37

Sale of services

71.00

47.29

Other operating revenues

72.70

46.24

Revenue from operations

3,420.44

3,236.06

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

(ii)

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

159

Geographical information
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Revenue from customers

For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from February
19, 2019 to December 31, 2019

2,804.12

2,705.29

India
Other countries*

616.32

530.77

3,420.44

3,236.06

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

693.27

637.99

*Exports to any single country are not material to be disclosed.
Non-current assets**
India
Other countries*

		

-

-

693.27

637.99

** Non current assets does not include deferred tax assets, financial assets and non-current tax assets.

(iii) Power Grid Corporation of India Limited account for more than 10 percent of Company‘s total revenue from
operations. Also refer note 391.				

37. Revenue from contracts with customers
a)

Disaggregated revenue information
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Revenue by geography

For the year ended For the period from February 19,
December 31, 2020
2019 to December 31, 2019

India

2,804.12

Other countries*

		

2,705.29

616.32

530.77

3,420.44

3,236.06

* Exports to any single country are not material to be disclosed.				
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Revenue by offerings
Sale of products
Revenue from execution of contracts for projects and services

b)

For the year ended For the period from February 19,
December 31, 2020
2019 to December 31, 2019
2,337.90

1,858.16

938.84

1,284.37

Sale of services

71.00

47.29

Other operating revenue

72.70

46.24

3,420.44

3,236.06

Contract balances
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

1,584.50

1,782.85

Advance from customer (refer note 20)

276.79

313.59

Billing in excess of contract revenue (refer note 20)

358.72

246.70

Contract assets (refer note 14)

125.99

136.95

Contract revenue in excess of billing / unbilled revenue (refer note 13)

60.82

66.45

Trade receivables (refer note 11)

A contract asset is an entity’s right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has transferred to a
customer and hence is not a financial instrument. In Company’s contracts with customers, since the contractual right to
payment arises only upon achievement of milestones specified in the contract, it is believed that the performance completed
until the achievement of a particular milestone should be recorded as a contract asset under non-financial assets.
		
During the period ` 113.02 crores of contract assets pertaining to the long term contracts as of January 1, 2020 has
been reclassified to trade receivables upon billing to customers on completion of milestones.			
During the period, the Company has recognised of ` 222.03 crores arising from opening billing in excess of contract
revenue as of January 1, 2020.				
c)
		
d)
		

No significant adjustments are expected in contract price for revenue recognised in statement of profit and loss.
Performance Obligation
Information about the Company’s performance obligations are summarised below:

160

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

i)

Long-term (Construction type) contracts - The long term contracts are ordinarily presumed to consist of
combined obligations which are not distinct in the context of the contract (i.e., single performance obligation).
This is highly attributed to the long-term construction nature of the projects, whereby deliverables are typically
highly interrelated and combined. The typical scope of turnkey contracts arrangements includes engineering,
manufacturing, shipment, delivery installation, testing, erection and commissioning and civil works. Although there
are several components to the overall scope of the contract, the turnkey contracts are generally considered one
performance obligation.				

ii)

Products manufacturing and erection, commissioning and installation contracts - These contracts comprising
of two performance obligations of supply of products and erection and commissioning thereof. When the
manufacturing stage is complete, factory acceptance testing procedures are performed to ensure the equipment
meets customer specifications and may involve the customer physically observing the testing procedures. Revenue
from contracts, where the performance obligations are satisfied over time and other consideration, is recognized as
per the percentage of completion method. The Company uses the percentage of completion method based on the
costs expended to the date as a proportion of the total costs to be expended.				

For certain products like transformers and gas insulated switchgears, percentage of completion is followed basis
acceptance of “Factory Acceptance Test” (FAT) carried by the customer basis the Company’s assessment that
these products being manufactured have an alternative use till the time FAT is carried out.			
				
Company as part of its contracts, provides warranties of the equipment for defects arising out of poor
workmanship, inferior material or manufacturing. Such warranty provided is in the nature of assurance warranty
and is not accounted for as a separated performance obligation.				
e)

Remaining performance obligations
The remaining performance obligation disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be
recognized as at the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the Company expects to recognize
these amounts in revenue.				
The aggregate value of performance obligations that are completely or partially unsatisfied as at December 31, 2020 is
` 4,954.76 crores (December 31, 2019 is ` 5,100.65 crores). The conversion to revenue is highly dependent on meeting
the delivery schedules, contractual terms and conditions with customers, availability of customer sites, changes/
variation in scope/prices etc. In view of these, it is not practical to define the accurate percentage of conversion to
revenue. However, it will be in a range of 1 to 3 years.				

f)

38 a)

There was no revenue recognised in the current year ended December 31, 2020 from performance obligations satisfied
(or partially satisfied) in previous periods due to no significant changes in transaction price. 			

Business restructuring

Scheme of arrangement
The Board of directors of ABB India Limited on March 5, 2019 approved the Scheme of Arrangement under Sections 230232 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Scheme’) between ABB India Limited (‘transferor
Company’), ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited (“‘Resulting Company’ or‚ ‘APPSIL’’’) and their respective
shareholders and creditors for the demerger of Power Grid business from ABB India Limited into the Company. The
appointment date for the Scheme was April 01, 2019. The scheme was approved by to National Company Law Tribunal
(NCLT), Bengaluru Bench vide its order dated. November 27, 2019 and a certified copy has been filed by the Company with
the Registrar of Companies, Bengaluru, on December 1, 2019 (effective date). The financial statements of the Company
have been prepared considering the effect of the scheme of arrangement from the Appointed date i.e,. April 01, 2019. The
scheme has been considered in these financial statements by transferring the assets and liabilities as identiﬁed by the
management as pertaining to the Power Grid business of ABB India Limited to APPSIL with effect from the “Appointed Date”
at their respective book values, as follows;			
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

Amount

Assets
Property, plant and equipment

523.33

Capital work-in-progress

37.86

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

161

Goodwill

31.80

Other intangible assets
Other non-current assets
Other financial assets

12.42
7.20
270.85

Inventories

469.58

Trade receivables

1,407.44

Loans

8.25

Other current assets
Total-A
Liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
Trade payables
Other financial liabilities
Other current liabilities
Provisions

63.39
2,832.12

Total-B

2,158.19

101.24
10.95
1,071.63
223.30
608.10
142.97

Net assets (A-B)

673.93

As per the applicable accounting standard Ind AS 103 (‘standard’), since this demerger is a common control business
combination, the financial information necessitates restatement by the Company at carrying amounts not from the
appointed date but from the beginning of the preceding period in the financial statements which happens to be the date of
incorporation i.e. February 19, 2019. Consequentially, the Company is required to give effect to the business combination
from February 19, 2019 (date of its incorporation). However, the Company has recognised the impact of the business
combination only from April 1, 2019 (i.e. the appointed date specified in the scheme of arrangement). The Company of
the view that due to incoherence between the appointed date i.e., April 1, 2019 and date of incorporation i.e. February 19,
2019 and requirements of Ind AS 103 such a one off situation has arisen. Thus, the statement of profit and loss (including
other comprehensive income), statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the period do not contain the
impact of the transactions of the demerged undertaking from February 19, 2019 to March 31, 2019. However, there is no
impact of the same on the Company’s balance sheet as at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 respectively.		
			
As consideration for the value of net assets transferred, the Company has issued 1 (One) fully paid up equity share of
` 2 each for every 5 (Five) Equity shares of ` 2 each held by existing shareholders in ABB India Limited. There is no contingent
consideration payable pursuant to this acquisition.					
					
Further, as per the Scheme, the deficit, if any, between the carrying value of assets, liabilities and reserves transferred to the
“Resulting Company” and the consideration discharged by way of the New Equity Shares issued to the shareholders of the
“transferor” in lieu of the Demerged Undertaking has been recorded as ‘Amalgamation Adjustment Deficit Account’ in the
books of the “Resulting Company”.					
Further, the Company has incurred the following cost due to the demerger which has been classified as exceptional items
in the statement of profit and loss:					
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019
37.23

Stamp duty charges

-

Professional charges
Others

7.43

1.93

-

1.63

Total

7.43

40.79

b)
		
		
		
		

Provision towards doubtful customer receivables and additional project cost				
During the year, the Company has re-evaluated its claims/dues in respect of certain old, slow moving contracts. Whilst
the Company is actively pursuing its dues from these customers, in view of significant delays by customers and based
on the analysis of the customer’s ability to pay, the Company has made additional provisions aggregating to
` 28.07 crores and the same has been disclosed as an exceptional item in the statement of profit and loss.

39. Related party disclosures
Party where control exists: (refer note 15(f))		
ABB Limited, Zurich, Switzerland (Ultimate Holding Company)		
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited, Zurich, Switzerland (Holding Company)		
Hitachi Limited (Ultimate Holding Company) (w.e.f. July 1, 2020)		
Hitachi ABB Power Grids Limited (subsidiary of Hitachi Limited)		
Entities under common control

162

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Name of the Fellow subsidiaries:
ABB (China) Ltd., Beijing, China
ABB (Hong Kong) Ltd., Hong Kong,
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China
ABB (Namibia) (Pty) Ltd., Windhoek, Namibia		
ABB (Private) Ltd., Harare, Zimbabwe			
ABB (Pty) Ltd., Gaborone, Botswana			
ABB A/S, Skovlunde, Denmark			
ABB AB, Västerås, Sweden			
ABB AG, Mannheim, Germany			
ABB AS, Billingstad, Norway			
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland		
ABB Asea Brown Boveri SRL, Bucharest, Romania		
ABB Australia Pty Limited, Moorebank, NSW, Australia
ABB Automation (Thailand) Co., Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand		
ABB Automation GmbH, Mannheim, Germany		
ABB B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands			
ABB Beijing Switchgear Limited, Beijing, China		
ABB Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia, Bulgaria			
ABB Business Services Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland		
ABB Chongqing Transformer Company Ltd., Chongqing, China
ABB Contracting Company Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
ABB Ecuador S.A., Quito, Ecuador			
ABB Electrical Equipment (Xiamen) Co., Ltd., Xiamen, China
ABB Electrical Industries Co. Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
ABB Elektrik Sanayi A.S., Istanbul, Turkey
ABB Engg. Technologies Co. (KSCC), Safat, Kuwait
ABB Enterprise Software (PGHV US non-legal entity),
Mt. Pleasant, PA, United States			
ABB Enterprise Software (PGTR BL non-legal entity),
Bland, VA, United States			
ABB Enterprise Software (PGTR SL non-legal entity),
St. Louis, MO, United States			
ABB Enterprise Software Inc., Atlanta, GA, United States
ABB Enterprise Software Inc., Cary, NC, United States
ABB for Electrical Industries (ABB ARAB) S.A.E., Cairo, Egypt
ABB for Power Grids S.A.E, Cairo, Egypt		
ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited, Bengaluru, India
ABB Global Marketing FZ LLC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates		
ABB High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen) Company Ltd., Xiamen, China
ABB High Voltage Switchgear Co., Ltd. Beijing, Beijing, China		
ABB Inc., Cary, NC, United States			
ABB Inc., Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada		
ABB India Limited, Bengaluru, India			
ABB Industries (L.L.C.), Dubai, United Arab Emirates		
ABB Industries FZ, Dubai, United Arab Emirates			
ABB Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland			
ABB Jiangsu Jingke Instrument Transformer Co., Ltd.,
Suqian, Jiangsu, China			
ABB K.K., Tokyo, Japan			
ABB Limitada, Maputo, Mozambique			
ABB Limited, Auckland, New Zealand			
ABB Limited, Bangkok, Thailand			
ABB Limited, Dar Es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, 		
ABB Limited, Dhaka, Bangladesh			
ABB Limited, Dublin, Ireland			
ABB Limited, Nairobi, Kenya			
ABB Limited, Warrington, United Kingdom			
ABB Limited/Jordan LLC., Amman, Jordan		
ABB LLC, Doha, Qatar			
ABB LLC,, Muscat, Oman			
ABB Ltd., Hanoi, Vietnam			
ABB Ltd., Kampala, Uganda			
ABB Ltd., Lusaka, Zambia			
ABB Ltd., Moscow, Russian Federation			
ABB Ltd., Seoul, Republic of Korea			
ABB Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan (Chinese Taipei)			
ABB Ltda., Guarulhos, Brazil			
ABB Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil			
ABB Malaysia Sdn Bhd., Subang Jaya, Malaysia			
ABB Management Holding Ltd., Zürich, Switzerland			
ABB Management Services Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland		
ABB Mexico S.A. de C.V., San Luis Potosi SLP, Mexico		
ABB N.V., Zaventem, Belgium			
ABB Near East Trading Ltd., Amman, Jordan			
ABB Oy, Helsinki, Finland			
ABB PG Muscat LLC, Muscat, Oman
ABB PG Power Grids Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland			
ABB Power Grids Argentina S.A.U.,

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina			
ABB Power Grids Australia Pty Ltd, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia
ABB Power Grids Bulgaria EOOD, Sevlievo, Bulgaria		
ABB Power Grids Canada Inc, Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada		
ABB Power Grids Chile SA, Santiago, Chile			
ABB Power Grids Co., Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan (Chinese Taipei)		
ABB Power Grids Colombia Ltda, Bogotá, Colombia		
ABB Power Grids Czech Republic s.r.o, Trutnov, Czech Republic
ABB Power Grids Denmark A/S, Skovlunde, Denmark		
ABB Power Grids Finland Oy, Vaasa, Finland			
ABB Power Grids Germany AG, Mannheim, Germany		
ABB Power Grids Greece Single Member SA,
Metamorphossis Attica, Greece
ABB Power Grids Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong,
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China
ABB Power Grids International Marketing FZ-LC, Dubai,
United Arab Emirates				
ABB Power Grids Investment (China) Limited, Beijing, China		
ABB Power Grids Ireland Limited, Dublin, Ireland			
ABB Power Grids Italy S.p.A., Milano, Italy			
ABB Power Grids Korea Ltd., Seoul, Republic of Korea		
ABB Power Grids LLC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates			
ABB Power Grids Ltd., Moscow, Russian Federation		
ABB Power Grids Malaysia Sdn Bhd, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia		
ABB Power Grids Malaysia Sdn Bhd, Selangor, Malaysia		
ABB Power Grids New Zealand Limited, Auckland, New Zealand
ABB Power Grids Norway AS, Billingstad, Norway			
ABB Power Grids Peru S. A., Lima, Peru
ABB Power Grids Poland Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland		
ABB Power Grids Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore		
ABB Power Grids Solutions FZCO, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
ABB Power Grids South Africa (Pty) Ltd, Johannesburg, South Africa
ABB Power Grids Spain, S.A., Madrid, Spain			
ABB Power Grids Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden			
ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd, Baden, Switzerland		
ABB Power Grids Systems LLC, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
ABB Power Grids The Netherlands B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands
ABB Power Grids Turkey Elektrik Sanayi Anonim Şirketi, İstanbul, Turkey
ABB Power Grids UK Limited, Stone, United Kingdom		
ABB Power Grids Zagreb d.o.o., Zagreb, Croatia			
ABB Power Systems Portugal, S.A, Oeiras, Portugal
ABB Power Technology Services Private Limited, Bengaluru, India
ABB Pte. Ltd., Singapore
ABB S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina				
ABB S.A., Casablanca, Morocco				
ABB S.A., Lima, Peru				
ABB S.A., Santiago, Chile				
ABB S.p.A., Milan, Italy				
ABB s.r.o., Prague, Czech Republic				
ABB SARL, Kinshasa Gombe, Democratic Republic of the Congo
ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland
ABB Sécheron S.A., Satigny, Switzerland
ABB Sifang Power System Co. Ltd., Beijing, China
ABB South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa
ABB Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland				
ABB SRL, Bucharest, Romania				
ABB Substations Contracting India Private Limited, Bengaluru, India
ABB Supply Operations Ltd., Baden, Switzerland			
ABB Technologies Ltd., Haifa, Israel
ABB Technology SA, Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire			
ABB Transformers S.A.E. ,New Cairo, Egypt.			
ABB Transmission & Distribution Limited LLC, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
ABB Xiamen Surge Arrestor Co., Ltd., Xiamen, China		
ABB Xi’an Power Capacitor Company Limited, Xi’an, China		
ABB, Inc., Paranaque, Metro Manila, Philippines			
ABB NG Limited, Lagos, Nigeria
ABB Power Grids Philippines, Inc., Paranaque City, Philippines		
Asea Brown Boveri Electrica SGPS (Angola) Limitada, Luanda, Angola
Asea Brown Boveri Lanka (Private) Limited, Colombo, Sri Lanka		
Asea Brown Boveri Ltd., Moka, Mauritius
Asea Brown Boveri S.A., Madrid, Spain			
PT ABB Sakti Industri, Jakarta, Indonesia			
PT. ABB Power Grids Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia			
Pucaro Elektro-Isolierstoffe GmbH, Roigheim, Germany		
Sucursal Panama de ABB SA, Panama, Panama			
Trasfor SA; Monteggio; Switzerland				
ABB Power Grids Belgium N.V., Zaventem, Belgium
Hitachi Limited				

Key managerial personnel :
(a)

Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer

Venu Nuguri

Non-Executive director
(b)
			
			
			

Achim Michael Braun (appointed w.e.f. February 25, 2021)			
Ismo Antero Haka (appointed w.e.f. February 25, 2021)			
Frank Duggan (resigned w.e.f. February 25, 2021)			
Sanjeev Sharma (resigned w.e.f. February 25, 2021)			

(c)
Non-executive cum Independent Directors
			
			
		
(d)
Chief Financial Officer

Akhila Krishnakumar
Nishi Vasudeva
Mukesh Hari Butani

(e)

Poovanna C Ammatanda

Company secretary

Ajay Singh

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

163

Transactions with related parties
Transaction value in excess of 10 percent with a fellow subsidiary has been individually disclosed below. All other cases
have been grouped and disclosed as ‘other fellow subsidiaries’.
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

i)

For the year ended
December 31, 2020

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

Revenue from operations
Fellow subsidiaries
1,146.83

453.19

- ABB Power Grids Sweden AB; Västerås; Sweden

88.27

20.25

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland

16.52

90.86

- Other fellow subsidiaries

357.82

258.79

1,609.44

823.09

- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India1

242.45

229.17

- ABB Power Grids Sweden AB; Västerås; Sweden

143.82

86.13

- ABB Ltd.; Hanoi; Vietnam

56.78

4.46

- Other fellow subsidiaries

108.80

154.95

551.85

474.71

-

35.26

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland

81.03

129.64

- ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd, Baden, Switzerland

64.46

-

- Other fellow subsidiaries

48.30

0.28

193.79

165.18

- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India1

ii)

Purchases of raw materials, components, project items and stock-in-trade
Fellow subsidiaries			

iii)

Expenditure on royalty, technology and trade-mark fees
Holding company
Fellow subsidiaries			

iv)

Expenditure on information technology, engineering, management and other services
Ultimate holding company

0.09

Fellow subsidiaries			
- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India

58.67

24.62

- ABB Management Holding Ltd.; Zürich; Switzerland

43.29

55.82

- ABB PG Power Grids Ltd; Zurich; Switzerland

36.11

-

- ABB Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland

35.99

-

- Other fellow subsidiaries
v)

47.66

29.54

221.72

110.07

- ABB Management Holding Ltd.; Zürich; Switzerland

8.95

1.81

- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India

2.04

0.61

- ABB Power Grids Chile SA; Santiago; Chile

-

2.34

- PT ABB Sakti Industri; Jakarta; Indonesia

-

2.16

- ABB Power Grids Argentina S.A.U.; Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos Aires; Argentina

-

1.86

Expenses recovered from group companies
Fellow subsidiaries			

- Other fellow subsidiaries
vi)

6.70

7.15

17.69

15.93

Other capital expenditure
Fellow subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India

16.64

2.96

- ABB Schweiz AG; Baden; Switzerland

0.54

0.61

- ABB Power Grids Sweden AB; Västerås; Sweden
- Other fellow subsidiaries
vii)

-

0.97

0.34

0.27

17.52

4.81

3.85

12.23

-

347.62

347.62

-

Interest expenses
Fellow subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India			

viii) Loan taken
- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India
ix)

Loan repaid
- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India

164

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the year ended
December 31, 2020
x)

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

Remuneration to key managerial personnel
The remuneration of key management personnel and a relative of key management
personnel of the Company are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories
specified in Ind AS 24 Related party disclosures
Particulars
Short-term employee benefits

4.37

0.32

Post employment benefits#

0.29

0.02

Directors' sitting fees

0.10

-

Commission to directors

1.10

-

Total
# Does not include gratuity and compensated absences as these are provided in the books of accounts on the basis of actuarial valuation for
the Company as a whole and hence individual amount cannot be determined.						

Amount due to/from related parties
Balances in excess of 10 percent with a fellow subsidiary has been individually disclosed below. All other cases have been
grouped and disclosed as ‘other fellow subsidiaries’.
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
As at
December 31, 2020
i)

As at
December 31, 2019

Trade receivables
Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India1

316.58

589.34

- Other fellow subsidiaries

141.17

123.36

457.75

712.70

- Add/(Less ): Impact of foreign currency restatement

ii)

1.16

1.11

458.91

713.81

Other financial assets
Fellow subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India1
- ABB South Africa (Pty) Ltd.; Modderfontein; South Africa
- Other fellow subsidiaries
- Add / (Less ) : Impact of foreign currency restatement

iii)

14.15

18.91

-

12.03

0.90

6.58

15.05

37.52

0.07

-

15.12

37.52

Other current assets
Fellow subsidiaries
- ABB Power Grids Sweden AB; Västerås; Sweden

29.03

6.46

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland

1.42

1.42

3.22

0.40

- Other fellow subsidiaries

33.67

8.28

3.01

0.29

36.68

8.57

- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India1

195.46

243.13

- ABB Power Grids Sweden AB; Västerås; Sweden

105.40

65.03

- Other fellow subsidiaries

336.67

96.90

637.53

405.06

- Add/(Less ): Impact of foreign currency restatement
iv)

Trade payables
Fellow subsidiaries

- Add/(Less): Impact of foreign currency restatement
v)

13.13

2.48

650.66

407.54

36.94

45.18

Other financial liabilities
Fellow subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India
- ABB Schweiz AG; Baden; Switzerland
- Other fellow subsidiaries
- Add/(Less ): Impact of foreign currency restatement

-

0.68

2.17

1.20

39.11

47.06

0.64

0.06

39.75

47.12

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

165

All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise

vi

As at
December 31, 2020

As at
December 31, 2019

- ABB Power Grids Korea Ltd.; Seoul; Korea, Republic of Korea

2.86

-

- ABB Power Grids The Netherlands B. V.; Rotterdam; Netherlands

0.97

-

- ABB Ltd.; Hanoi; Vietnam

0.68

1.78

- ABB South Africa (Pty) Ltd.; Modderfontein; South Africa

0.18

22.81

-

2.59

Other current liabilities
Fellow subsidiaries

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland
- Other fellow subsidiaries
- Add/(Less ): Impact of foreign currency restatement

1.63

1.62

6.32

28.80

0.05

0.16

6.37

28.96

Pursuant to demerger of Power Grid business from ABB India Limited (‘ABB’) in the previous year, the Company has
accounted sales and purchases towards the contracts yet to be novated by the Company with customers and vendors.
The aforesaid sales and purchases has been included in the revenue from operations and cost of sales of the Company.
The receivables and payables on account of the same has been included in trade receivables and payables
respectively.

1

40. Corporate social responsibility expenses								
As per the Section 135 of the Companies Act 2013, the Board shall ensure that the Company spends, in every financial
year, at least two per cent of the average of the net profits of the three immediately preceding financial years, in pursuance
of its Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) Policy. Hence, the Company falls within the ambit of Section 135 of the Act
and is required to contribute the amount stipulated under the aforesaid provisions of the Act.
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars
a) Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year
b) Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year
c) Amount spent during the year ending on 31 December, 2020:
i) Construction/acquisition of any assets
ii) On purposes other than (i) above

In cash
-

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

4.42

-

4.42

-

Yet to be paid in cash

Total

-

-

0.83

3.59

4.42

In cash

Yet to be paid in cash

Total

i) Construction/acquisition of any assets

-

-

-

ii) On purposes other than (i) above

-

-

-

d) Amount spent during the year ending on 31 December, 2019:

41. The Company is in the process of conducting a transfer pricing study as required by the transfer pricing regulations under
the IT Act (‘regulations’) to determine whether the transactions entered during the year ended December 31, 2020, with the
associated enterprises were undertaken at “arm’s length price”. The management confirms that all the transactions with
associate enterprises are undertaken at negotiated prices on usual commercial terms and is confident that the aforesaid
regulations will not have any impact on the financial statements, particularly on the amount of tax expense and that of
provision for taxation.
42. The spread of COVID-19 has severely impacted businesses around the globe. In many countries, including India, there
has been severe disruption to regular business operations due to lockdowns, disruptions in transportation, supply chain,
travel bans, quarantines, social distancing and other emergency measures. The Company had shutdown plants and offices
following nationwide lockdown which was announced by Government of India in view of COVID-19. From last week of April
2020, operations at plants had commenced in a phased manner considering directives from various government authorities.
As a result of lockdown, the volumes for the period have been impacted. The Company has evaluated its liquidity position
and of recoverability and carrying values of its assets and has concluded that no material adjustments are required at this
stage in these financial statements.
								
43. The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment
benefits received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. However,
the date on which the Code will come into effect has not been notified. The Company will assess the impact of the Code
when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period the Code becomes effective.			
		

166

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

44. Certain amounts (currency value or percentages) shown in the various tables and paragraphs included in the financial
statements have been rounded off or truncated as deemed appropriate by the management of the Company.			
					
45. The audit of financial results of the Company for the previous year was carried out by a firm of Chartered Accountants other
than S.R. Batliboi and Associates LLP.
								
46. Previous year’s figures have been regrouped / reclassified, wherever necessary, to conform to the current year’s classification.
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Firm registration number.: 101049W/E300004
Chartered Accountants

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : L31904KA2019PLC121597

per Sandeep Karnani
Achim Michael Braun
Partner
Chairman
		
DIN: 08596097
Membership no. 061207		

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 07032076

		
Ajay Singh
		
Chief Financial Officer
			
			

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 26, 2021

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
8th Floor, Brigade Opus
70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road
Bengaluru - 560 092
www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in

@ 2020 ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited.
All rights reserved

HITACHI
Statement on Impact of Aud it Qualifications (for audit report with modified opinion) submitted along-with
Annual Audited Financial Results - (Standalone and Consolidated separately)

31,2020-

r ate",o"t on Impact 01 Audit Qualifications lor Ihe Financial Vear endedoecem. bor
See Re ulalion 33/52 01 tho SEBI (l,OOR) (Amendm..!nt) Regulations 20161 __ _
.
51. No.
Particulars
udited riyures I~djustcd Figures i
rores {as reportedcrores (audited tig
t
etore adjusting fo1ures after adjusting
ualifications
or qu litications.
3.438.9 _ _ . ~~8.9
urnoyer I Total income
alai Ex enditure
3,;139.1
,Net ProfiV(Loss)
lEarn;" 5 Per_Share

olalAssets

-

olal Llablhties
:-

~I

is
T

--t=
_

-

_

3 ,503.1

et Worth
ny other financlal,tem(s) (as felt appmpnat

2.570.6
932. 5~
Nond

Ythe managemem)

---I

_

____ _ _
Udlt Qualification ruch audit qual.!tication separate~
!

23 .5

!

_

932.52
-

Nc;;;l
1

_

, Details of Audit Qualification, We draw attention to Note 38 (a) to the accompanying Ind AS fi nanci~
tatements rega rding the Scheme of Arrangement ('Scheme') for demerger of the power grid busines
f AB8 India Limited with the Company with an appointed date of April 01, 2019 and approved by th
ational Company Law Tribunal (,NCLT') vide its order dated November 27, 2019 . As per the applica·
ble accounting standard Ind AS 103, since this demerger was a common control business combination
~he financial information necesSitated restatement by the transferee at carrying amounts not from th
~ppointed date but from the beginning of the preceding period In the financial statements which hap
p ens to be the dale of incorporation ie. February 19, 2019 . Accordingly. the Company was required a
per lnd AS 103 to give effect to the business combination from February 19, 2019 {date of its incorpo
~ation}. However, the Company had recognized the Impact of the business combination only from ApM
1. 2019 (i .e. the appointed date specified in the scheme) and has not restated and disclosed financla

~

esults for the period from February 19, 2019 to March 31. 2019, in the comparative period ende
ecember 31, 2019. However, there is no impact of the same on the Company's Ind AS financial state
ents of the year ended December 31 , 2020. Our opinion on the current year's statement is qualifi
because of the possible effect of this matter on the comparability of the current period's figures and th
(responding figures .
his matter was also qualified in the comparattve periods by the preceding auditor

\---.-FJY. e of Audit Qualifica tion: Qualified 0 inion
. Fre uenc of ualification: re etitive and continuin from last ear.

\-_ _ .p.-eF",
o,-,
rA
" udit Qualification(s) where the imQ.act is ~uantified by the auditor. Mana ement's Views . N.A. ,
\ - - --f'". Fc ·~ Audit Qualification(sJ~here!he Im~ct is _n ot quantjfied~b"-,t,"h."-"a",u"d,,ito,,,r~:-'y,,,es" -_ _ _ _ _ _-i
j) Management's estimation on the impact of audit qualification: No estimate

ABB Pow •• Productllnd Sr$l.m$ Indll Unlllfll
RIOlsl...., Ot'llc. &. Corpo.... t. 0ffIc.

CIN l ) \ ,Gf.1(,,\2019P\. C1"21 597
iIIllIJ '_
""-Kh<ft>b-~"d. comf

IIIhFioor ~de Opu, ~40 1 .
KoO:oena:lo~~. ~-560 092

Phone

~!ll 80 220411l00

>I,
HITACHI ABB POWER GRtDS

HITACHI
- - ~f m-;nage-;ent is unable t~stimate th~mpacl. reasons for the same As perthe -;pplicab-;-aCi
~~ur'ling standard Ind AS 103 ('standard'), since this demefger IS a common control business COmblj
rahon. the financial Information necessitates restatement by the Company at carrying amounts 1101
from the apPOinted date but from the beginning of Ihe preceding penod in the financial c;tatamcntJ
~hich happens 10 be the data of Incol~lalion j e t--ebruary 19. 2019. ConsequentiaUy, the Company
15 required to give effect to the business combination from February 19. 2019 (date of Its incorporation)
However, the Company has recognised the impact of the business combination only from April 1. 201 ~
I e the appointed date specified in the sC'.heme of arrongemClllt) TII(:l Company IS of the view that
u Incoherence between the apPointed dale I.e., April 1, 2019 and date of Incorporation i.e. February
19,2019 and requirements of Ind AS 103 such a one-oH situation has arisen. Further, In addition loj
hal has been stated in Note 38 (a) to the Ind AS financIal statements WP- wish to t;t~te that In dlltld1
ahon of rEtOfg.misation af AI!iB India Umited's business by way of saId Scheme, the Company WC:lS:
ncorporated Such date of Inc.oll)oratlon IS not In control of the Company. The Registrar of Companle :
SUed the certificate of incorporation on February 19, 2019. The management confirms that, dunn
he period between February 19, 2019 and March 31, 2019, no active bUSiness was undertaken othe
han the [ni.ti81 paid up share capitaL In light of the above, there is no Impact on the financial statement
f the Company as at December 31, 2020 as affirmed by the Auditors. Thus, the statement of profi
nd loss (Including other comprehensIve income), statement of changes in equity and statement 0
, sh flows for the period do not contain the impact of the transactions of the demerged undertakin
from February 19. 201910 March 31 2019

dlJi

~
~

' 'Ii) Audito;'" Comments on (i) or (il) ~bove: We draw attention to.Note 38 (a) to the accompanying In

S finanCial statements regarding the Scheme of Arrangement ('Scheme') for demerger of the pawe
nd bUSiness of ABB India LImited With the Company with an appOInted date of Apnl 01, 2019 an
pproved by the National Company Law Tribunal (,NCLT) vide ItS order dated November 27,2019
per the applicable accounting standard Ind AS 103. since this demerger was a common contro
~uslness combinatJOn, the financial InformatIon necessitated restatement by the transferee at carrytn
;amounts not from the appointed date but from the beginning of the precedIng period in the flllanJ:18
:s ta tements which happens to be the date of incorporation I.e. February 19, 2019. Accordingly, U,
oOlpany was required as per Ind AS 103 to give effect to the business combinatIon from February 19
0 19 (date of its incorporation) However, the Company had recognized the Impact of the bustnessl
ombination only from Apnl 01, 2019 (i e. the appointed date specified in the scheme) and has no~
estaled and disclosed finanCial results for the penod from February 19, 2019 to March 31,2019, in the
omparatlVe penod ended December 31,2019. However, there is no impact of the same on the Comi
any's Ind AS financial statements of the year ended December 31, 2020. Our opinion on the curren~
, ear's statement is qualified because of the pOSSible effect of this matter on the comparability of 'hel
I urrent period's figures :and the corresponding figures

\As

l

hl~r was also qualified in the comp~!ative flenods by the precedIng auditor

A88 P~.. ProdU~IJ and SyJ"mt Il'Idll LIffilIN
Rcthleted 0tfIG. . . C04l>O ... I. Otfle.
8\h Floor. Bn;acIe~, 70'401
KoGoget> ... MI.., R<»d ~a"n" ~ ~1
F'r>orIe ..<)1 e.o lZ04'800

t-v.. ,'it'll
~;I
..... '.'_"'I·~· .. t~ i,:l:V:-

HITACHI ASS POWER GRIDS

HIAC I

111
r'

\I{,"; d

"~t"'-1l..r

DI"J 02}.?7 hJ
,'AClf1a!:j'fl9 Dlredor

For ABB POWer Pr ,:jlj(:';~ iinc Sy<;"Hl, I ldl

"Jay S,f19'1

,.-.::ro
, J
/
,f

M Jhs'l f-I3! fu

Gil>. J'1_L,~,j
CI <JI. l"nn, Aud t '.: "
It"t of C <) ' .
'For S.R 8,\TLlBOI & 1,3S0CI/\ ITS lLP
ICJ;I "'il/JI He:;i~t'JtJ(" f\; JP,le' 1Cll).j'J/v,' onr 'A

StatU!.:lfy Auditor

Place.
Date

•

f

HITACHI ABS POWfR GRIDS

