July 21, 2020
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor
Plot No. C/1, G Block
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E)
Mumbai 400 051
(Atten: Manager Listing Department)

BSE Limited
P.J. Towers
Dalal Street
Mumbai 400 001
(Atten:DCS Listing)

Dear Sirs
Subject: Submission of Annual Report of the Company for the Financial period ended December 31, 2019
pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations).
Ref

: BSE Scrip: 543187 (POWERINDIA)

NSE Symbol: POWERINDIA

In terms of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, enclosed please find copy of the Annual Report for the
financial period ended December 31, 2019 being circulated to Shareholders of the Company in respect of
the 1st Annual General Meeting, scheduled to be held on Thursday, August 13, 2020 at 11.00 A.M. (IST)
through Video Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”).
You are requested to take the same on your record.

Thanking you.
Yours faithfully,
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Digitally signed by AMMATANDA
AMMATANDA
CHINNAPPA POOVANNA
CHINNAPPA POOVANNA Date: 2020.07.21 10:11:42 +05'30'

Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Encl: As above

ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Registered Office & Corporate Office
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru-560 092
Phone: +91 80 22041800

CIN: U31904KA2019PLC121597
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/

HITACHI ABB POWER GRIDS

—

A B B P OW ER PRODUC TS A N D
S YS TEMS I N D I A LI M ITED
A N N UA L R EP ORT 201 9

Shaping the
future of
sustainable
energy

2

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited
At a glance
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited*
provides one of the most comprehensive grid
portfolio across the entire power value chain.
We have been making in India for over six decades,
commissioned landmark projects and invested
ourselves in shaping future talent in the country.
We remain committed to our purpose:
Shaping the future of sustainable energy,
with pioneering technologies, as the partner of
choice for a stronger, smarter and greener grid.

*ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited operates as
Hitachi ABB Power Grids in India and is listed on the NSE and BSE
as POWERINDIA.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Annual Report 2019
Contents
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

004

Our roadmap

005

Our heritage in India

006

Our footprint in India

007

Our portfolio

008

Innovation and people

009 – 010

Country Management Committee

011

Company information

012

Highlights 2019

013

Financials

014

Statutory Reports

—
01

015 – 086

Financial Statements

—
02

087 – 135

3

4

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited
Strengthening our footprint to drive
sustainable energy growth
—
Headquartered in Bengaluru, ABB Power Products and
Systems India Limited became a standalone legal entity in
2019, after demerging from ABB India Ltd. We established
a world-class digital experience center demonstrating
the next level of enterprise performance for enhanced
grid stability, improved asset performance and efficient
operational management, and also began work on our

High-Voltage Products Innovation Center as part of our
investment in strategic research and development.
We also laid the foundation for projects in the
e-mobility space in the country with our TOSA electric-bus
flash-charging technology. We partnered with Ashok
Leyland in 2020 to facilitate a zero-emissions mass public
transportation bus system.

MOU signing for the TOSA electric-bus flash-charging
technology with Ashok Leyland.

Inauguration of High-Voltage Products Innovation
Center at Vadodara.

Launch of a world-class digital experience center - PowerDEC - Bengaluru.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

5

—
Our roadmap
Committed to setting higher benchmarks
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited is
constantly transforming by investing in creating
a winning portfolio of future-ready products and
services. This has ensured we remain the partnerof-choice for our customers to enable a stronger,
smarter and greener grid. We understand the criticality
of our work for India’s economic success and hence have
committed ourselves to developing and strengthening
the country’s power infrastructure across diverse growth
segments such as rail electrification, e-mobility,
high-voltage direct current (HVDC), data centers and
renewables integration, to ensure unobstructed flow
of essential services. Powering up our vision is our
investment in research along with our active performance
tracking.
We aim for nothing less than world-class execution,
building on our nature of continuous improvement
in our business models and lean implementation of
complex projects. With that, we have grown from
commissioning the first HVDC link in India over 25 years

ago to the 8,000 megawatt North East-Agra ultra-highvoltage-direct-current link, to booking breakthrough
upgrade projects this year.

We have successfully strengthened our role as a product
and systems partner and digital solution expert through
our futuristic vision, quick turnaround time and offerings
that improve customers’ competitiveness and reduce
their carbon footprint. All this has been supported by our
people strategy and strong culture of innovation.
We take pride in encouraging fresh ideas, keeping our
employees, customers and partners at the heart of
everything we do. We are deeply committed to building a
motivated talent pool that will continue to help us shape
the future of sustainable energy with our pioneering
technologies, ensuring we remain ahead of the curve.
Our aim is to provide the best and most cost-effective
products to our customers so that they can better serve
their customers.

6

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Our heritage in India
Most comprehensive power grid portfolio,
across the value chain
With a history spanning more than six decades, we have built on our strong position to deliver world-class
projects through state-of-the-art technologies and an outstanding talent pool, and contributed to
Indiaʼs Smart Cities and “One Nation” - “One Grid” - “One Frequency” mission, as well as Power-for-All and
Make-in-India initiatives.

1949
Hindustan
Electric
Company

1988

1949

2019

Hindustan Electric
Company is incorporated
and later acquired by
Brown Boveri Cie (BBC).
ASEA and BBC merge to
form ABB in 1988

Booked our first order
for cybersecurity from
Power Grid Corporation
of India Limited (PGCIL),
Roorkee

1965

2018

First manufacturing
facility in India is set up in
Maneja, Vadodara-the
circuit breaker factory

Partnering Indian
Railwaysʼ electrification
ambitions with extensive
traction equipment
orders

1989

2017

Commissioned the
first back-to-back HVDC
transmission link for
NPTCL at Vindhyachal,
connecting the northern
and western grids

First digital substation
for reliable, round-theclock power to serve the
350 companies for Indiaʼs
largest Information
Technology park

2013

2017

Inaugurated the
dry-type transformers
and PASS-GIS factories in
Savli, Vadodara, under the
Make-in-India Initiative

Commissioned the
worldʼs first multiterminal UHVDC link-the
6,000MW, 800kV DC link
connecting North-East
to Agra

2015

2016

Installed end-to-end
power solutions for
Delhi Metro and SCADA
to monitor and control
the power network

Energized the worldʼs
highest rated 1,200kV
transformer and circuit
breaker

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

7

—
Our footprint in India
Well-networked to serve customers
We are spread across 16 manufacturing units and 17 sales offices in five locations. With over 2,000
employees, we are serving over 1,000 customer groups and living up to our promise of on-time-delivery.

2,200+ employees

16 manufacturing units

17 sales offices

1,000+ customers

Savli, Vadodara

Peenya, Bengaluru

Maneja, Vadodara

Hebbal, Bengaluru

Halol, Panchmahal

Mysuru

Head office and GBS, Bengaluru

Key manufacturing locations

Sales offices

8

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Our portfolio
Operating across the entire power value chain
We supply products and components, systems, software and automation, and services through our four
businesses and partner with customers through the entire product and project lifecycle - from building
and planning to operating and maintaining.

Products and components
Broadest portfolio and footprint
• Grid automation products
• Live tank breakers
• HV instrument transformers
• Disconnectors
• Capacitor & filters
• GIS
• Hybrid switchgear-PASS
• Power transformers
• Reactors
• Traction transformers
• Insulation & components
• Dry transformers

Systems
Technology and innovation leader
• Grid-edge solutions
• Grid & power quality systems
• HVDC-grid interconnectors; city infeeds
• FACTS & power quality
• E-bus charging systems (TOSA)
• Substations & services - digital substations;
hybrid and mobile solutions

Service
Largest installed base
• Transformers
• High-voltage products
• Grid automation

Software and automation
Deepest application know-how
• Communication networks
• Enterprise software
• Grid automation systems

Planning and building solutions
• Power consulting

Operations and maintenance solutions
• Asset management solutions
• Energy portfolio management
• Workforce management solutions

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

9

—
Innovation and people
At the heart of everything we do
Enabling a stronger, smarter and greener grid through our pioneering technologies and collaboration
across sectors: case studies.
—
Power Grid Corporation of India Limited selects
ABB Power Gridsʼ transmission technology to bring
reliable power to 80 million people.
In less than a decade, India is likely to become the most
populous country in the world. The Government has
promised to provide 24/7 power for all its people while
sustaining its economic growth momentum and living
up to its climate pledge.
Thus, Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL)
selected ABB Power Grids to commission an 800-kilovolt
ultra high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission
link between Raigarh in Central India to Pugalur in the
southern state of Tamil Nadu, integrating both thermal
and wind energy. The link is also called RP800.
Stretched over 1,830 kilometres – among the longest in
the world, the link will hold a capacity of 6,000 megawatts
– the equivalent of more than six large power plants –
and be able to meet the electricity needs of over 80 million
in India. It would also lead to a saving of approximately
244 square kilometres of space – the entire city of
Kuala Lumpur.
Leveraging its extensive local manufacturing and
engineering base in India and proven partnership with its
consortium partner, Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited
(BHEL), for the execution of this project, RP800 honors the
Make-in-India initiative and showcases ABB Power Grids
prowess in delivering breakthrough projects and shaping
the future of sustainable energy.

—
IIT - Roorkee partners with ABB Power Grids to become
a green campus.
The Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, India’s
oldest engineering university, chose to collaborate
with ABB Power Grids to construct an operational smart
electricity distribution network and management system
in its campus – a project that will serve as a proof of
concept of using smart grids and intelligent automation
to efficiently manage power distribution. In line with
ABB Power Grids’ goal of building technology that runs
the world without consuming the earth, it would also
showcase how India can make its vision of Power-for-All
much more sustainable.
ABB Power Grids’ Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition systems (SCADA), microgrids energy
storage and energy management systems will be
installed to automate and remotely monitor, control and
measure the campus grid. The entire integrated system
will offer more power resilience, lower costs due to
reduced dependency on electricity sourced from the
Government utility and diesel generators. The agreement
also includes the creation of a Smart Grids Resource
Centre and joint R&D facilities in the field of efficient
power generation and distribution with a focus on clean
energy over the next five years.

10

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

—
ABB Power Grids powers Indian metros
To maintain its economic momentum, India needs a
rapid mass transit system. Without slowing its economic
growth ambitions, the country requires a rapid mass
transit system that is continuously upgraded and
extended. As of today, all metro rail services in India use
some ABB Power Grids technologies.
Helping commuter trains run reliably, efficiently and
safely, its world-class solutions, from electrification to
future-ready remote monitoring system, are powering the
longest metro network in the country – the Delhi Metro.
Easing traffic congestion and reducing pollution, they
are enabling operators to take proactive measures to
avoid major repairs or service interruptions. Through
the continuous monitoring of field equipment and
systems, they are also helping to enhance performance
and cut costs.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

The Bangalore Metro project, the second longest metro
network, also runs on ABB Power Grids technology and so
does Kochi - one of the 100 smart cities assigned by the
Government - is the first tier 2 city to have a metro
project in the country and for its 13-kilometer-long
metro stretch ABB Power Grids has provided a host of
technology solutions for power supply and distribution
packed with environment friendly features that optimize
space and ensure safety of people and equipment.
The Company is also responsible for the electrification of
the first corridor, between Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar,
in Mumbai, bringing much respite to the already stressed
suburban transit system in the city. Metro networks are
key to sustainable urban mass mobility in Indian cities,
where about 40 percent of the Indian population is
projected to reside by 2030. About 25 metro projects are
planned in the country in the coming years. ABB Power
Grids remains at the forefront of powering them with its
digitally advanced solutions, shaping the future of modern
mass transit in the country.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

11

—
Country Management Committee
Strong leadership, clear focus
Striving to create value for customers through rich industry experience and dedication to shape the
future of sustainable energy in India.

From left to right (standing)
Poovanna Ammatanda General Counsel and Company Secretary
Karthik Krishnamurthi Head of Sales and Marketing
Ahmad Khan Senior Vice President - Grid Automation
Akilur Rahman Chief Technology Officer
Ramkumar D Senior Vice President - GPQS
Saji S Senior Vice President - HVDC

From left to right (sitting)
Manjit Sethi Senior Vice President - Transformers
Raja Radhakrishnan Country HR Director
N Venu Managing Director
Ajay Singh Chief Financial Officer
Manashwi Banerjee Head of Communications
Rupinder Singh Senior Vice President - High Voltage Products

12

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Company information
—
Board of Directors
Frank Duggan, Chairman
Venu Nuguri, Managing Director
Sanjeev Sharma, Director
Akila Krishnakumar, Independent Director
Mukesh Hari Butani, Independent Director
Nishi Vasudeva, Independent Director

—
Auditors
Messrs B S R & Co. LLP,
Chartered Accountants
Maruthi Info-Tech Center,
11-12/1, B Block,
2nd Floor, Inner Ring Road,
Koramangala, Bengaluru - 560 071.

—
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents
KFin Technologies Private Limited
Selenium, Tower B,
Plot 31-32, Gachibowli,
Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally Mandal,
Hyderabad - 500 032.

—
Audit Committee
(Constituted wef December 24, 2019)
Mukesh Hari Butani, Chairperson
Akila Krishnakumar, Member
Nishi Vasudeva, Member
Venu Nuguri, Member

—
Chief Financial Officer
Ajay Singh

—
Bankers
1. Axis Bank Limited
2. Bank of America, N.A.
3. Deutsche Bank AG
4. HDFC Bank Limited
5. ICICI Bank Limited
6. IDBI Bank Limited
7. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.
8. Standard Chartered Bank
9. State Bank of India
10. The Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation Limited
11. Yes Bank Limited

—
Stakeholders
Relationship Committee
(Constituted wef December 24, 2019)
Nishi Vasudeva, Chairperson
Mukesh Hari Butani, Member
Venu Nuguri, Member
—
Nomination and Remuneration
Committee
(Constituted wef December 24, 2019)
Akila Krishnakumar, Chairperson
Nishi Vasudeva, Member
Frank Duggan, Member
—
Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee
(Constituted wef December 24, 2019)
Akila Krishnakumar, Chairperson
Sanjeev Sharma, Member
Venu Nuguri, Member
—
Risk Management Committee
(Constituted wef December 24, 2019)
Mukesh Hari Butani, Chairman
Nishi Vasudeva, Member
Frank Duggan, Member
Venu Nuguri, Member
Ajay Singh, Member

—
Cost Auditor
Messrs Ashwin Solanki & Associates,
Cost Accountant
801-2, Goyal Trade Center,
Above Sona Cinema, Shantivan,
Near National Park, Borivali (East),
Mumbai - 400 066.
—
Secretarial Auditors
Messrs BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries
4272, Sapthagiri, 2nd Floor,
Vivekananda Park Road,
Near Seetha Circle,
Girinagar, Bengaluru - 560 085.
—
General Counsel, Company Secretary
and Compliance Officer
Poovanna Ammatanda
—
Registered Office
8th Floor, Brigade Opus,
70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560 092.

—
Corporate Identity Number
U31904KA2019PLC121597

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

13

—
Highlights 2019
Setting many a milestone
—
Cybersecurity: Booked our first order from
Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL),
Roorkee.
Remote monitoring: Delivered our largest single
Feeder Remote Terminal Unit order from Asian
Fabtech for Bangalore Electricity Supply Company
Limited in a year.
Transmission: Commissioned first multi-protocol
label switching - transmission protocol fiber
optical transmission equipment order for 1,400 km
oil and gas pipelines for Pipeline Infrastructure
Limited.

Cybersecurity

Remote monitoring

Exports

Major
orders

Transmission

Service

Transformers

Transformers: Booked milestone orders for
traction transformers for Indian Railways under
their ‘Mission Electrification’.
Services: Booked HVDC upgrade order for
PGCIL’s Rihand-Dadri HVDC link, a recovery and
restoration order for Thyristor Controlled Series
Compensation solution at Raipur Substation,
life-cycle service orders for grid automation from
Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, Vedanta, NTPC and
PGCIL, and many others.
Exports: Our transformers business booked
breakthrough orders in Africa, South America and
Asia. We made entry into Angola and booked
our first order for the 245 kV vertical break
disconnector from the U.S..

14

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Financials
Our performance from
April - December 2019
In the nine months, ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited, delivered profitable growth in
uncertain markets. We sustained positive revenue momentum driven by our fine project execution and
on-time order delivery.

Performance summary

Key ratios

Particulars
April - December 2019
Total orders received
2,642
Revenue
3,231
Profit Before Tax (PBT) before exceptional item
261
Profit After Tax (PAT)
165
* For the nine month period ended December 31, 2019.
All figures in INR Crore

Order split by sector

Industry

Transport

Utilities

Effective tax rate
Earning per share (INR)
Debtors turnover
Inventory turnover
Current ratio

25.0%
44.7
2.02
6.71
1.07

Order split by offerings

Projects

Products

Services

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
01
Statutory Reports

Business Responsibility Report

016 –029

Notice to the Members

030 – 037

Directorʼs Report

038 – 046

Management Discussion and Analysis

047 – 084

MD/CFO Certificate

085 – 086

15

16

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Business Responsibility Report 2019
Statement on Demerger
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
(“Company” “We”) was incorporated on February 19, 2019.
A scheme of arrangement (“Scheme”) was entered into
between (i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”/“Transferor”)
(a subsidiary of your Company’s Promoter, ABB Asea
Brown Boveri Ltd) and (ii) your Company (“Company”/
“Transferee”) and their respective shareholders and
creditors, pursuant to the provisions of Section 230 to 232
and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act,
2013, which provided for inter alia the Demerger of the
Power Grids Business of INABB (“Demerged Undertaking”)
and the consequent issuance of Equity Shares by the
Company to the shareholders of INABB as per the Share
Entitlement Ratio. The Scheme was approved by your
Board of Directors pursuant to its resolution dated March
5, 2019 and the Board of Directors of INABB pursuant to its
resolution dated March 5, 2019. Pursuant to an order dated
June 27, 2019, passed by the NCLT, meetings of the
equity shareholders and the creditors of INABB were
convened. The equity shareholders and the creditors of
INABB approved the Scheme at court convened meetings,
each held on August 9, 2019. The NCLT approved the
Scheme on November 27, 2019. The Appointed Date of the
Scheme was April 1, 2019 and the Effective Date was
December 1, 2019.
The Scheme provided for the transfer by way of a demerger
of the Demerged Undertaking and the consequent issue
of Equity Shares by the Company to the shareholders of
INABB in accordance with the Share Entitlement Ratio,
and various other matters consequential or integrally
connected there with, including the re-organisation of the
share capital of the Transferee, pursuant to Sections 230
to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013, the SEBI Circulars and
in compliance with the Income Tax Act, 1961.

reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. Aligned
with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal 7.
The Company is a leading contributor to a sustainable
world through its unique business offerings of pioneering
technologies and sustainable business practices. The
Company is expecting in aiding and steering the path for
the country’s vision of sustainable growth and its agenda
to focus on smart cities, sustainable mobility solutions,
bringing in automation and energy efficiency in core
manufacturing and utility sectors apart from focusing
on its in-house sustainability in terms of sustainable
processes and practices at its operations and
manufacturing locations.
The Company is supporting Government of India to realize
its ambitious vision of ‘Make-in-India’ through advanced
manufacturing technologies that incorporate the latest
developments in robotics and artificial intelligence. The
Company is using its state-of-the-art manufacturing and
applications of future technologies.
The Company is expecting to create value by
manufacturing and supplying energy-efficient power grid
business making their operations more efficient and
lowering overall environmental impact. Robust risk
management processes are being undertaken, covering
health, safety, social, environmental and security impacts,
to strengthen business performance and resilience.
Sustainability considerations are embedded into the
Company’s daily business and it helps to create value to its
varied stakeholders and manage its risks. The Health
Safety Environment and Sustainability Affairs (HSE/SA)
function sets strategic direction and delivers effective,
efficient services that embed health, safety, environment,
security and corporate responsibility in sustainable
business practices of the Company.

Sustainability overview

The Company has a focused approach to address
sustainability and has set itself with ambitious targets for
key sustainability indicators such as health safety,
environment-energy, climate change, waste, water, right
material use, resource efficiency, integrity, sustainable
sourcing, security and community engagement. All these
initiatives have a direct or indirect impact on the
Company’s performance and its success. The Company
has in place a comprehensive policy on Health, Safety,
Environment, Security and Sustainability. The Company
also has an HSE policy in line with the Group’s objective.

Our Purpose is powering good for a sustainable energy
future, with pioneering and digital technologies, as the
partner of choice for enabling a stronger, smarter and
greener grid. We help to increase access to affordable,

To realize global leadership in HSE/Sustainability (SA)
performance, the Group has created a robust and
comprehensive HSE/SA management system (titled the
ABB way) based on internationally recognized

With regard to all the activities undertaken during the
financial period, it may be noted that Transferor company
contributed/undertook the conduct for Power Grids
business and post effective date of the Demerger, i.e.
December 1, 2019, the Company has been continuing with
all the efforts and conduct of Power Grids Business.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

sustainability standards, principles and commitments
including ISO 45001 and ISO 14001. This system sets clear
expectations and the required minimum standards, which
are being implemented and embedded into our operations
across the world including activities of the Company.

Sustainability objectives and targets
The business has set sustainability targets that are
continuously monitored, and along with actions are taken.
The Group targets and programs for 2020 and beyond
includes the following nine sustainability objectives
against which performance is monitored and reported:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Products and services for a better world
Energy efficiency and climate change
Safe and secure operations
Integrity
Human rights
People and society
Responsible sourcing
Resource efficiency
Right materials

The Group prepares the Sustainability Report annually for
public disclosure based on the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) guidelines.

Stakeholder engagement
Sustainability performance forms an important basis for
the Company’s dialogue with its stakeholders. In recent
years Group has been carrying out surveys with
stakeholders that impact the Company’s sustainability
strategy and priorities. Consultations with both external
and internal stakeholders were instrumental in developing
the Group sustainability objectives for 2014-2020. A
comprehensive dialogue is in process to seek inputs and
feedback from key stakeholders that will enable ABB to
revisit its materiality matrix and also in developing the
next level 2030 objectives.
The following are the key identified stakeholders of the
Company:
Business

Government

Civil society

Customers

Government and
regulators

International organizations

Suppliers

Legislators and the law

Local communities

Investors

Trade bodies

Academia and scientific
community

Employees

Media

Competitors

NGOs and civil society
organizations Trade unions

During the financial period ended December 31, 2019 the
Company and the Power Grids Business through the

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

17

Transfer of Company dynamically engaged with its varied
stakeholders to create an inclusive business environment
seeking their inputs constantly. The Company had
dialogues with various Government entities central and
state with regards to policy and presentation on the
Company’s innovative sustainable solutions such as
electric vehicle charging and “Make-in-India”, smart
cities, sustainable mobility solutions, energy efficiency,
efficiency upgradation in the railways sector, renewable
energy, growth developments & technology keeping the
climate change, job skilling, etc.
We established a world-class digital experience centre
demonstrating the next level of enterprise performance
for enhanced grid stability, improved asset performance
and efficient operational management, and began work
on our High- Voltage Products Innovation Center as part
of our investment in strategic research and the company
also laid the foundation for projects in the e-mobility
space in the country with the TOSA flash-charging
solution. The company also partnered with Ashok Leyland
in 2020 to facilitate a zero-emissions mass public
transportation bus system.
Supplier and contractor safety meets are carried out
regularly to bring contractors and vendors in line with
safety requirements of management systems. The
Company also carried out its Supplier Sustainable
Development Program (SSDP) across chosen vendors.
A total of NIL investor complaint was received in the
financial period. For employee participation and
engagement, there are several ongoing initiatives. Also,
there were several management communications with
emphasis on health, wellness & safety in daily work.
The Company during the period also organised several
customer engagement events to bring the Company’s
technologies closer to the customers.

Healthy and safe working environment
Safeguarding its employees and contractors is the prime
area of focus for the Company. Safety being a line
responsibility, the Company focused on developing people
skills, knowledge and resources to equip its personnel
with the right behaviour. This year, apart from certifying
its employees on safety, the Company’s trainings focused
on behavioural and job specific aspects such as Safety
Master Class and Resilience for all its managers and
specific trainings and certification programs imparted
to nominated members such as the Institution of
Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) and National
Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health
(NEBOSH). Electrical safety trainings for all service
personnel was also completed by the Company. The
Company clocked around 15,000 man-hours of training
during the period under review.

18

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

To ensure safe operations, hazard reporting resolution
of reported hazards was implemented. The Company
received a total of 25,000 hazards during the period under
review and 98.8% of the reported hazards were resolved
during the period under review and the balance being
done. A total of 1,852 Sustainability Observations Tours
(SOTs) were conducted during the period under review
across the Company which included not just safety
but also health, environment and security related
observations. The Company clocked a total of 16 million
contractor man-hours worked and 14 million employee
man-hours worked, with zero work related fatality, Zero
serious injuries, One high potential incident, One lost time
injury and 7 medical treatment injuries.
In an effort to motivate and propagate good safety
practices within the Company, it continued to appreciate
and reward key innovations, best practices by individuals
and teams and these were recognized and rewarded under
the Company’s annual HSE awards program. The Company
also followed the fair process to recognise contributions
to HSE.
Occupational health and wellbeing continued to be
another key HSE focus for the Company. Various
health programs such as occupational health checks,
welfare oriented executive medical checks, resilience
program with focus on breathing meditation, relaxation
sessions, yoga and stretching exercise sessions were
conducted. Training sessions on the usage of Automated
External Defibrillator (AED) that have been deployed
across locations and on Basic Life Support (BLS) were
conducted. The Company also saw large participation of
its employees in completing “at least 10000 steps a day”
as a part of the Global Health Challenge program initiated
by the Group. There was also increased communication
by the Company on general health information to all
employees through various means including weekly mail
communications. The Company came out with the
‘NO TOBACCO’ programme and helped employees quit
tobacco use.

Environmental management
The Company is compliant with all statutory requirements
related to environment, and specific environment- related
challenges are addressed under the direct supervision of
location heads. There were no monetary fines/penalties
for Environmental non-compliances paid by the Company
during the period under review.
All of the Company’s facilities have been certified to
ISO management systems namely ISO 14001:2015. The
Company’s facilities are in the process of transitioning to
ISO 45001:2018.
The Company has made significant progress towards its
energy and climate goals. The Company’s grid electricity

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

consumption in the year was 30,538 MWh of which
35% is via green power purchase which in turn reduced its
scope-emissions. Green power purchase and in-house
solar installations for street lighting has supported the
environmental objectives.
The Company had undertaken several energy
conservations projects across all factories which
includes, replacing conventional lightings with LED
lamps, maintaining power factor at unity, provision of
Variable Frequency Drives for HVAC systems, replace
old motors with energy efficient ones, installation of
common effluent treatment plants, Installation of
combined RO plants etc.

Water management
Water withdrawal in the year was 256 KL at the Company’s
manufacturing facilities. Although the manufacturing
processes in most sites of the Company are not water
intensive, water is considered material to its operations due
to the growing demand for freshwater in the country. Efforts
to reduce freshwater withdrawals include conservative use
of water in its operations by using water efficient fixtures in
buildings and water reuse. Closed loop systems are used for
the Company’s cooling systems and industrial processes
and in-house Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) aid in the
Company’s recycling efforts. Water treated in the Company’s
STP is used for irrigation of gardens and for sanitation
purposes. The Company had merged multiple small effluent
treatments plants into one single treatment plant to
improve efficiency, unified RO plants installed to reuse
process water and reduce natural water intake by 20%.

Waste management
Reducing generation of waste and reducing the wastes
that is sent for final disposal remains the Company’s
focal area. Waste reduction is incorporated in the
product design stage to ensure waste minimization
in manufacturing process. Source segregation of
waste, in-house recycling of packaging materials and
reuse continues to add more value to waste and reduces
the quantum of non-recyclable wastes that are sent
to landfill.
All wastes are sent to relevant Pollution Control Board
(PCB) authorized recyclers. Of the total wastes disposed
this year, 70% were recycled through these authorized
recyclers and co-processing units. The Company has also
identified and implemented means to reduce sending
waste to landfill rather sent to co-production. The Company
had identified process for pulp recovery to re-use in the
production with an overall recovery of 300 kilos every day.
Over 155 tonnes of scrap being given for co-processing,
thus reducing the wastes sent to landfill or incineration.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

The Company understands that it is important to
minimize the environmental impact related to its own
manufacturing and service activities, and the real
challenge is in reducing the impact along the whole value
chain which includes the impact from its products, from
material selection through production, operation and
end-of-life treatment. A majority of the Company’s
products have a very long operating lifetime, hence, high
efficiency and low emissions during operation of the
product are essential in reducing the total environmental
impact.
Group uses a process called the Gate Model for product
and technology development. Sustainability aspects are
built into this model and includes a standardized Life Cycle
Assessment (LCA) procedure. The Group also develops
Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) to communicate
the environmental performance of core products over its
entire life cycle. EPDs are based on detailed LCA studies
conducted using the LCA model and declared according
to international standard ISO/TR 14025.
LCAs have been conducted for various products such
as power transformers,gas insulated switchgears, and
current relays, etc. and these also have environmental
product declarations (EPD). EPDs provide quantitative
information on all concerned aspects in comparable
terms, for example energy used, resources, materials
used, global warming effects and use of non-renewable
resources in each one of the phases.

Supply chain sustainability
The Company extends its influence to ensure a responsible
working environment of direct and indirect stakeholders.
This includes partners in the supply chain who share
considerable footprint in the product value chain.
The ABB Supplier Code of Conduct is the basis on which
the Company builds its strategy to source responsibly.
The Supplier Code of Conduct defines the Company’s
requirements for its suppliers and is integrated with the
General Terms & Conditions. The Company considers its
suppliers as business partners and requires that they
conduct their business consistent with the standards and
principles of the Company. Complying with the applicable
environmental and OHS regulations, internationally
proclaimed human rights standards and ensuring equality
of opportunity are expected as the minimum level of
commitment.
The Company has implemented a Supplier Sustainability
Development Program (SSDP) as part of a comprehensive
sustainable sourcing initiative. The goal of SSDP is to
ensure compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct,
support continual improvement of the sustainability
performance of suppliers and to provide customers with
a highly competitive and sustainable supply chain. In the

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

19

scope of this program, the Company selects a group of
suppliers each year. Then they are trained and audited to
identify areas of improvement in the following domain:
•
•
•
•
•
•

General management
Working hours
Remuneration
Social benefits
Health and safety
Environmental protection

In addition to regular trainings, the Company has
conducted special workshops on legal awareness. The
suppliers also have access to the ABB Supplier
Sustainability Implementation Guide, which provides
practical advice on how to meet the requirements of the
ABB Supplier Code of Conduct. The Company also reviews
the implementation of action plans by repeated visits and
follow up audits. Suppliers are supported throughout the
program for any kind of technical query.
In India, 6 suppliers have been trained on sustainability
requirements and 6 of them were assessed for such
requirements during 2019. Total number of suppliers
trained under the program since 2009 stands at 121
(may include suppliers who have undergone repeat
trainings). The total number of suppliers assessed
stands at 121.
This program helped the participating suppliers identify
and mitigate risks and strengthen their systems. Through
this program, the risk profiles of the selected suppliers
have shown steady improvement, as depicted in the charts
below (the charts represent the percentage risk profiles of
suppliers selected from 2009 to 2019, before and after
corrective actions under the SSDP). At the end Q4 of 2019,
11 suppliers who did not show commitment to fulfil
the requirements of the Supplier Code of Conduct were
blocked. Business with these suppliers can only resume
after they have demonstrated compliance with the ABB
Supplier Code of Conduct.
In order to further strengthen its responsible sourcing
strategies, the Company is revisiting its sourcing process
and is adopting additional controls. ABB, jointly with
a 3rd party agency, did a recertification program for
its internal lead assessors. Having employees who can
conduct and evaluate sustainability performance of the
suppliers will further embed the sustainability practices in
sourcing activities.

Advocacy, aid and corporate
responsibility bodies
The Company is in process of becoming member of key
industry associations namely:
1

Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)

20

2
3
4
5

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Indian Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers’
Association (IEEMA)
Swiss Chamber of Commerce
Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and
Industry
Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce

People well-being
The Company continues to attract top performers due to
its inclusive culture and the opportunities available for
growth. The people strategy is aligned with the Company’s
overall ambition to be a pioneering technology leader.
This required a stable work environment in a growing
market by maximizing the potential of the Company’s
workforce. To ensure that the Company continues to
attract top talent, multiple employer branding initiatives
were launched.
During the year, the Company has consistently set a
clear path to learn and adapt to perform better in the
changing market situation with its enhanced performance
management and talent strategy, focusing on building a
healthy pipeline by attracting, assessing and developing
talent. In addition, persistent attention to provide an
inclusive environment to promote diversity in gender, age
and culture, including opportunities for global mobility,
also form a part of the proactive plan to manage talent in
key function areas. The Company’s competency has been
aligned with the business strategy.
The Company recognized exceptional performance
and behaviour in line with organizational values through
its rewards and recognition programme. There was
continuous focus on improving the diversity in the
workforce throughout the year. An ex-employee
outreach programme was also launched to encourage
rehiring of performers who may have left for various
reasons. The entire approach to wellbeing was based on
increasing diversity, promoting inclusion and recognizing
performance. Annual medical check-ups and camps were
set up through the year to promote physical wellbeing.

Learning and development
The Company’s learning and development (L&D) function
focuses on leadership and professional development
programs. The Company’s L&D team is responsible
for the implementation of Global Training Programs
such as ABB Life, Manager Development Program
(MDP), Management Essentials Program (MEP), Middle
Management Program (MMP). L&D Partners are aligned
to various divisions to enable effective partnering with
the business and provide customized learning solutions.
While Leadership Development and most other L&D
initiatives are in-house, the L&D team also works closely

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

with external agencies and vendors to meet the demands
of local training programs. This year, there was focus
on developing cross cultural awareness and preparing
managers to deal with a workforce which is increasingly
diverse and technology friendly.

Career development and opportunities
The Company enables personal growth and development
by offering open dialogue, having regular performance
and development reviews including structured feedback,
knowledge transfer and opportunities for multidirectional
career steps, such as working on different projects,
moving between various businesses or rotating among
functions or geographies. The Company encourages its
employees to progress within the organization as
opportunities arise. Employees use career guide in their
own career planning and the Human Resources function
of the Company provides strong support to employees
and managers in creating long term employee career
plans. The Company‘s Human Resources have a strong
talent management process as well to encourage and
provide career development opportunities for promising
employees. This year the Company completed the first
potential development programme aimed at creating a
structured development path for employees identified
as exceptional performers. There was also a renewed
focus on ensuring that employees across divisions are
considered as successors for positions across the
Company. Positions closed through internal movements
went up significantly this year. Existing employees were
considered first for the new positions that came up this
year. Development of leaders and professionals continues
to be a priority for the Company.

Diversity and inclusion
ABB Group being a global pioneer with a 125-year history,
has grown from its roots in many different countries and
cultures around the world. The Company welcomes
different ways of thinking and acting, different qualities
and skills, different experiences and backgrounds and
values them because it is dedicated to being inclusive,
recognizing and respecting all aspects of difference.
Diversity & inclusion initiatives at the company are guided
by an overall strategy with three pillars: talent, career
lifecycle and raising awareness on diversity and inclusion
internally and externally.
The Company through various efforts and initiatives
sustained and consolidated its diversity at 5.8% in the
reporting year. Some of the key activities of the Company
during the period under review include:
1

Expanded its talent source to ensure diverse rich
‘future talent pool’

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

2

3

4

5
6

Included talent development program that focuses on
increasing the ‘female talent pipeline’ for middle
management
Created awareness among people managers with
‘hiring’ responsibility on ‘Unconscious bias’ during
selection process
Organized meetings with business leaders for candid
discussion on D&I challenges and action plan and to
bridge any gaps identified for D&I initiatives
Initiated the “Re-board” program to reconnect with
former women employees
Invited women leaders to be a part of ‘RISE’ – a D&I
initiative for women leadership development

S.N Key human resource data of the company for the year

2019

1

2,200

Total number of permanent employees

2

New employees added

3

Apprentice/Interns/Trainees

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

21

the minimum to be achieved, with respect to
non-discrimination, prohibition of child and enforced
labor, freedom of association and the right to engage in
collective bargaining. Raising awareness of human rights
is one the company’s nine sustainability objectives for
2014-2020. The United Nations (UN) guiding principles are
central to ABB’s human rights training. A global awarenessraising program for all focuses on understanding how
the company can potentially impact human rights, the
importance of due diligence and how the Company is
embedding human rights in business processes, a global
capacity building program is under way. In this reporting
period, there have not been any grievances related
to human rights. The Company, in line with the Group
policy, seeks to raise its standards, and increase its
understanding, and mitigation of human right srisks.

11 *
385

4

Total number of employees hired on contractual basis

219

5

Number of women employees of the total number of
permanent employees

129

6

Number of permanent employees with disabilities

7

Recognized employee association

YES

8

Percentage of permanent employees who are members
of the recognized association

27%

15

*from April 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019.

Respecting and promoting
human rights
The Group recognizes that respect for human rights is a
basic requirement and that failure to do so can cause harm
to people and adversely affect business, with potential
legal, financial and reputational consequences. The
company follows its Human Rights Policy and a Social
Policy to respect human rights and to avoid causing or
contributing to adverse human rights impacts through
own activities.
The policy draws on the Universal Declaration of
human rights, the International Labour Organization
(ILO) core conventions on labor standards, United
Nations Global Compact (UNGC), The Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, UN sustainable
development goals (SDG) and the Social Accountability
(SA) 8000 standard. All employees have access to the
human rights e-learning, which describes the human
rights principles and risks for the company. The company
has made a provision, ‘employees shall report any human
rights risk or violation that might occur during projects,
services and operations of the company. Human Rights
performance are being monitored based on relevant
indicators to evaluate and to prevent human rights
impacts in all of the company’s operations and workplaces.
The company’s Human Rights and Social Policies
specifically refer to the ILO core conventions as

Integrity, transparency
and accountability
The company’s Code of Conduct is the framework that
explains the behaviour the company expects of every
employee and stakeholder who work with it. The Company
Code of Conduct provides a framework to put business
principles into practice with utmost integrity. It is a breach
of the Company Code of Conduct to fail to report a
violation or suspected violation that employees know
about or to refuse to cooperate with the investigation of
a suspected violation. Each employee is responsible for
ensuring that his or her conduct and the conduct of
anyone reporting to the employee fully comply with all
applicable laws and the Company Code of Conduct.
The Group has developed and implemented a systematic
approach designed to prevent, detect and resolve any
potential integrity concerns. This is supported by tools
and processes and a zero-tolerance policy for any
violations. The Company’s integrity program has created
an environment where all its employees can be open
about identifying risks, asking questions, and raising
concerns.
The Company in line with the Group uses as systematic
approach, designed to foster a culture of integrity and
compliance. This is carried out through leadership and
business accountability, supported by strong tools and
processes, and a zero-tolerance policy for violations. As a
part of the Group integrity program employees of the
Company are not just encouraged but are required to
speak up and to report any suspected or observed
violations of the law, the ABB Code of Conduct, or if
they are asked to do something that might be a violation.
They are to report on any of their concerns initially to
their direct management, country integrity officer,
country human resources manager, ombudsperson, or
alternatively, through country specific business ethics
hotline numbers and e-mail which is routed to the

22

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Company’s Chief Integrity Officer (CIO). The Company’s
CIO along with the integrity team then work towards
investigation, and resolution of issues reported there-in.
The Company has multiple reporting channels available to
all its employees/stakeholders and this includes an
ABB Business ethics hotline (dial the country access code
000- 117, when you hear the recorded message, dial the
number 800-662-7219, or email to: ethics.contact@ch.
abb.com) that is available for employees to report
integrity and compliance concerns or seek guidance.
There are web- based reporting systems available for
employee reporting. Stakeholder hotline for business
partners are also available (+4143 317 33 66). All reports
received are subjected to appropriate investigation,
follow up, and brought to full closure; systematic process
and tracking system and the Company enforces a rigorous
non- retaliation policy.
The Company’s Anti-Corruption Policy is stated explicitly
in the Group directive on bribery and anti-corruption
and emphasizes key components that are essential for
ensuring strict compliance to anti-bribery laws but also
refraining from corruption. The Company enforces a
rigorous zero-tolerance policy against any involvement in
bribery or corruption and has put in place robust policies
to prevent bribery such as on gifts, entertainment and
expenses, charitable contributions and representatives,
and measures to ensure ethical supply chains.
The Company also ensures continuous compliance with
competition and antitrust laws. The ABB Code of Conduct
requires the Company to compete fairly, safeguard
confidential information and be mindful of antitrust
risks. The Company’s behaviour within its teams,
with customers, other business partners and in the
communities where it operates, are guided by its business
principles – respect, responsibility and determination – in
compliance with antitrust requirements. The Anti-Trust
Guidance Notes aim to address practical business
situations and provide rules and guidance for all ABB
employees on how to conduct themselves in order to
comply with antitrust requirements.
The Company has an Internal Complaints Committee for
the prevention of sexual harassment as a part of the
sexual harassment of women at workplace (Prevention,
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 that aims to provide
protection against sexual harassment of women in the
workplace and for prevention and redressal of complaints
of sexual harassment and for matters connected
there with or incidentals thereto. The Company has
Internal Complaints Committee at each location and
establishments (all locations where more than 10 women
are employed). There were no complaints received by the
said committee of the Company in the year.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Community engagement
The ABB’s Group’s Social Policy was adopted in
February 2001. The Social Policy focuses on ABB in society,
human rights, children and young workers, freedom
of engagement, health and safety, harassment and
disciplinary practices, working hours, compensation,
suppliers, community involvement and business ethics.
The policy is drawn principally on six sources:
1
2
3
4
5
6

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights
The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights
The International Labour Organization’s Declaration
on Fundamental Principles and Rights atWork
The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
The Global Sullivan Principles and
The Social Accountability 8000 (SA 8000) standard

The Company has its Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR) policy and framework for action along with clear
focal areas against which community engagement
projects are taken up predominantly in and around its
factory locations. Being the first financial period, the
Company was not required to spend any amount under
CSR for financial period ended December 31, 2019.

Customer engagement
As a pioneering technology leader, the Company offers
its customers products and solutions that improve
operational and resource efficiencies and performance.
The Company values and respects its customers and
strives to meet and exceed their expectations. The
Company adopts an outside-in perspective to understand
the customer’s interactions with ABB, reduce the
customer’s effort at each touchpoint and improve the
customer experience.
During the period under review the Company hosted
several meets, events and seminars to proactively engage
with the customers. Transformer Days 2019 was held at
the famed Laxmi Vilas Palace of Vadodara with the theme
of ‘Future of Energy’. In keeping with the theme, the twoday event included more than ten technical sessions, two
customer voice sessions, factory visits and a dedicated
exhibition hall to showcase our latest products- especially
the digital portfolio. More than 200 customers from
11 countries attended the event and gained from the
knowledge of our ten speakers from various product
groups and verticals. The company also participated in
various external trade shows like GRIDTECH 2019, IREE
-2019 etc and showcased its products and solutions.
The Company also engages with customers through
training – at customer sites or at the Company’s dedicated
training facilities. The training program integrated

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

best-in-class demonstrations and in-depth technical
proficiency to upskill customer engineers, optimised
their operations and made their business safer. During
the period under review the Company at its state-of-the
art training centre called ABB Power Technology
Experience Centre (ABB PowerTEC) trained more than
1,088 customers (27,640 total training hours) from 38
companies based over 6 countries. The courses covered
topics related to, training and learning in futuristic and
current power engineering, power automation and digital
technologies.
Customer voice is an integral part of the Company’s
decision-making process. Since 2010, the Company has
adopted the Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey to know
how the Company is perceived by its customers. The
customers response to the “recommend” question and
the green card/red card feedback, tells the Company
how it measures up to the customers’ expectations,
highlighting the areas where it has performed well and
those where it needs to do better. The country relational
NPS surveys are held once in two years. In the NPS survey
carried out by the Company in 2018. The NPS score rose to
62.5%, an improvement of about 8.5 percentage points as
compared to the previous survey.
In addition, the Company also uses transactional NPS
surveys to get touch-point specific feedback to identify
improvement measures. As transactional surveys are
a leading indicator of customer loyalty, the intention
is to continue to raise the bar by responding rapidly
and decisively to real-time customer feedback from the
Company’s operational staff as soon as they occur.
The Company also has a cross- business unit initiative
called Power Grids Customer Connect Centre (PG-CCC) to
enhance the Company’s set-up and performance with
respect to inquiry handling, thereby contributing to
improved customer experience and satisfaction. The
initiative comprises a country-level Customer Connect
Centre which provides an easy-to-reach contact point for
those customers and other business partners who do not
know where to turn to. The Customer Connect team
receives inquiries – which can be of any kind for any
product, system or service – and routes them to the
business units or functions in the Company for their
response and resolution. The Customer Connect team is
available 24/7, 365 days and can be accessed via an
all-India toll-free telephone number (000 800 919 0400),
email (power-grids@abb.com) for web inquiries. The
Customer Connect Centre will soon gear up with live chat
function and will also route inquiries through customer
portal. The Customer Connect team does not replace but
complements existing channels between a customer and
the Company’s business units and functions.
The capture and management of customer dissatisfaction
is key to building customer relationship and the
improvement of Company’s products, systems and
services. In terms of addressing any customer issues with

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

23

the Company’s products, systems and services, the
Company has a set process called the Customer Care
Response Process (CCRP). Most of the Company’s
customers deal with more than one business unit in
the Company. CCRP channels customer care topics and
improves customer satisfaction by providing a single
Company-wide common process and tool. It captures,
documents, performs root cause analysis and ensures
resolution in a timely and qualitative manner of any kind
of customer dissatisfaction. Customers are also given the
opportunity to confirm if they were satisfied with the
solution provided and the way it washandled.

24

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Links to policies and programs
Sustainability (ABB Group):
http://new.abb.com/sustainability
ABB Policy on Health, Safety, Environment, Security and Sustainability:
https://new.abb.com/sustainability/abb-policy-on-health-safety-environment-security-and-sustainability
HSE Policy (Company):
http://new.abb.com/docs/librariesprovider19/default-document-library/hse-policy-poster_24-x-32-in_v5.
pdf?sfvrsn=2
Social Policy (ABB Group):
http://new.abb.com/sustainability/social-policy
Human Rights Policy & Statement (ABB Group):
http://new.abb.com/sustainability/human-rights-policy-and-statement
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (Company):
http://new.abb.com/indian-subcontinent/investors/corporate-governance/india-corporate-social-responsibility
Sexual harassment of women at the workplace Policy (Company)
https://new.abb.com/docs/librariesprovider19/default-document-library/policy-on-sexual-harassment-of-womenat-workplace.pdf?sfvrsn=2
Code of Conduct (Company):
http://www.abb.co.in/cawp/abbzh252/45f145dc6cfc01cac12579b500315ed3.aspx
Supplier Code of Conduct (ABB Group):
http://new.abb.com/about/supplying/code-of-conduct
Supplier Sustainability Development Program (ABB Group):
http://new.abb.com/about/supplying/sustainability
Corporate Governance (Company):
https://new.abb.com/grid/appsil/investors-section
Integrity Program (ABB Group):
http://new.abb.com/about/integrity
ABB Whistle-blower - Protection Policy (Company):
https://global.abb/group/en/about/integrity/reporting-channels/whistleblower-protection-policy

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

25

Business Responsibility Report 2019
(As per Regulation 34 (2) (f) of the Listing Regulations, 2015)
SECTION A: GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY
1

Corporate Identity (CIN) of the Company

U31904KA2019PLC121597

2

Name of the Company

ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

3

Registered address

8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401 Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru-560092

4

Website

https://new.abb.com/grid/appsil

5

e-mail id

in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@abb.com

6

Financial period reported

19.02.2019 TO 31.12.2019

7

Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in
(industrial activity code wise)

1

8

List three key products/services that the Company manufactures/ 1
2
provides (as in balance sheet)
3

9

Total number of locations where business activity is undertaken by 16 factories
the Company

Manufacture of electric motors, generators, transformers and
electricity distribution and control apparatus - 271
High Voltage Switchgears of all types
Transformers
Grid Automation products & systems

A Number of International Locations (provide details of major 5):

NIL

B Number of National locations:

16 factories in 5 locations and 17 sales offices as on December 31, 2019

10 Markets served by the Company - Local/State/National/International Asia, Middle East, Africa, Europe and Americas

SECTION B: FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY
1

Paid up Capital (INR)

8.48 crores

2

Total Turnover (INR)

3,231.21 crores

3

Total profit after taxes (INR)

165.89 crores (after considering other comprehensive income)

4

Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as a
percentage of profit after tax (%)

Not Applicable

5

List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred

Refer CSR report attached to the Directors’ Report

SECTION C: OTHER DETAILS
1

Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/Companies?

2

Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies participate in the Business NA
Responsibility (BR) Initiatives of the parent company? If yes, then
indicate the number of such subsidiary company(s)

No

3

Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers, distributors etc.) that This assessment has been undertaken by the Transferor Company
the Company does business with, participate in the BR initiatives of
the Company? If yes, then indicate the percentage of such entity/
entities? [Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]

SECTION D: BR INFORMATION
1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR
(a) Details of Director/Directors responsible for implementation of the BR policy/policies
1

DIN Number

07032076

2

Name

Venu Nuguri

3

Designation

Managing Director*

*appointed as Director and Managing Director w.e.f. December 2, 2019.
(b) Details of the BR Head
No. DIN Number (if applicable)

NA

1

Name

Chakravarthi Arun

2

Designation

Country HSE

3

Telephone number

080-2204 1800

4

e-mail id

chakravarthi.arun@in.abb.com

26

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

2. Principle –wise (as per National Voluntary Guidelines - NVGs) BR Policy/policies
(a) Details of compliance (Reply inY/N)
No. Questions

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

1

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Do you have a policy/ policies for

P1 Environment, Health and Safety Policy
P2 Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
P3 Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace Policy
P4 Anti-Corruption Policy
P5 Whistle Blower Protection Policy
P6 Group Social Policy
P7 Group Human Rights Policy
P8 ABB’s Code of Conduct
P9 ABB Supplier Code of Conduct
2

Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the relevant Yes
stakeholders?

3

Does the policy conform to any national/international standards? If Yes
yes, specify? (50 words)

4

Has the policy being approved by the Board? Is yes, has it been Few of the policies have been approved by the Board and other Group
signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director?
policies are adopted by the Company.

5

Does the company have a specified committee of the Board/ The Company has a committee for CSR and Sexual Harassment of
Director/Official to oversee the implementation of the policy
Women at the Workplace. For the other policies, the Company has
adequate internal control on its implementation.

6

Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?

7

Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant internal No. It is planned to be done within 1 year.
and external stakeholders?

8

Does the company have in-house structure to implement the policy/ Yes
policies?

9

Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to Yes
the policy/policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to
the policy/policies?

10

Has the company carried out independent audit/evaluation of the No. Since this being the first year of operation of after incorporation
working of this policy by an internal or external agency?
and demerger of PowerGrids business

Please refer to the section on ‘Links to the Company Policies and
Programs’ section of the detailed BRR document

(b) If answer to the question at serial number 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please explain why: (Tick up to 2options)
No. Questions

P1

1

The company has not understood the Principles

NA

2

The company is not at a stage where it finds itself in a position to
formulate and implement the policies on specified principle

NA

3

The company does not have financial or manpower resources available
for the task

NA

4

It is planned to be done within next 6 months

NA

5

It is planned to be done within the next 1 year

NA

6

Any other reason (please specify)

NA

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

3. Governance related to BR
(a)

Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Being the first financial period, the Company was not required to review
Committee of the Board or CEO to assess the BR performance of and assess for financial period ended December 31, 2019
the Company. Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than
1 year

(b)

Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What Being the first financial period, the Company was not required to publish
is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is a BR or a Sustainability Report for FY 2018
published?

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

27

SECTION E: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE
Principle 1
1

Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only No.
the company? Yes/No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ It extends to the Group/Joint Ventures, Suppliers, Contractors, NGOs
Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others?
and Others.

2

How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past NIL,
financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the Ever since the allotment of equity shares was made on December 24,
management? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so 2019, no complaints were received upto December 31, 2019
Principle 2

1

List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has (a) Gas insulated switch gear
incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or (b) Ester filled transformers
opportunities
(c) Dry type distribution transformers

2

For each such product, provide the following details in respect of Life Cycle Analysis (LCAs) have been conducted for products such as
resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of product power transformers, breakers, gas insulated switchgears, current relays,
(optional):
etc. and these also have environmental product declarations (EPD)
(a)

Reduction during sourcing/production/distribution achieved Not available
since the previous year throughout the value chain?

(b) Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been Not available
achieved since the previous year?
3

Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing Yes. The Company has set procedures to select suppliers, contractors
(including transportation)?
and service providers based on their competence and capability to
undertake tasks and in compliance with the ABB’s Supplier Code of
Conduct which includes health & safety, environment, ethics & integrity,
human rights, working conditions among others. As a guiding principle
the Company prefers to do business with compliant and sustainable
suppliers. The Company has set procedures in place for sustainable
transportation as well. At the time of qualification to become an ABB
supplier, the vendor is assessed across sustainability matrix.
The Company has implemented a Supplier Sustainability Development
Program (SSDP) as part of a comprehensive sustainable sourcing
initiative. The goal of the SSDP is to ensure compliance with the
Supplier Code of Conduct, to support continual improvement of the
sustainability performance of suppliers and to provide customers with
a highly competitive and sustainable supply chain. In the scope of this
program, the Company trained both suppliers and Company employees,
and carried out supplier audits to identify improvement in the areas of
general management, working hours, remuneration, social benefits,
health and safety, environmental protection etc.
Yes. The Group directive specifically for Sourcing Transport & Logistics
service is a guidance document that the Company follows. Among
many other stringent criteria that the supplier is evaluated upon, key
sustainability aspects that are reviewed for selection include: HSE
policy and training programmes of the vendor, compliance to internal
and external certification of the operations staff of the vendor for HSE
training to ensure their HSE competencies prior to commencement of
work, compliance to PPE requirement, certification of all safety tools,
equipment by third party and to check if the vendor is in compliance
with all the governmental environmental regulations, energy
performance improvement and Carbon footprint initiatives. There are
also stringent qualifications across ABB’s Human Rights policy, training,
and adherence to ABB’s RoHS, REACH compliance and to ABB List of
Restricted and Prohibited Substances for supplier qualification.
(a) If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? All of the Company’s vendors mandatorily go through a stringent
Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
evaluation and qualification criteria before they are registered with
the Company. The qualification procedures include all aspects of
sustainability performance.

4

Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services Yes. Businesses do have their list of local suppliers. However, the
from local & small producers, including communities surrounding Company has moved towards a centralized procurement team and all
their place of work
of its vendors and suppliers need to meet with the set of qualification
requirements of the Company.
(a) If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and The Company has analysed and identified the most common issue of its
capability of local and small vendors?
suppliers as “limited knowledge in legal requirements related to factory”
during sustainability assessments. Training materials on relevant local laws
and information has been made available to the participants of the SSDP.

28

5

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste? Yes. Greater than 10%
If yes what is the percentage of recycling of products and waste
(separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details thereof, in
about 50 words or s
Principle 3

1

Please indicate the total number of employees

Permanent employees: 2,200

2

Please indicate the total number of employees hired on temporary/ New employees added in the year: 11*
contractual/casual basis
Apprentice/Interns/Trainees: 385
Contract employees: 219

3

Please indicate the number of permanent women employees

4

Please indicate the number of permanent employees with disabilities 15

5

Do you have an employee association that is recognized by
management?

6

What percentage of your permanent employees are members of this 27%
recognized employee association?

7

Please indicate the number of complaints relating to child labour, There were no complaints relating to child labour, forced labour, sexual
forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last harassment during the period
financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year

129

YES

* from April 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019

No. Category

No of complaints filed during the
financial year

No of complaints filed pending at end of the
financial year

1

Child labour/forced labour/involuntary labour

NIL

Nil

2

Sexual harassment

NIL

Nil

3

Discriminatory employment

NIL

Nil

8

What percentage of your under mentioned employees were given Yes. All the Company’s employees underwent safety related training and
safety & skill up-gradation training in the last year?
skill upgradation on a periodical basis.
(a) Permanent Employees
(b) Permanent Women Employees

During the period under review over 15,000 manhours of training
imparted to permanent employees

(c) Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees

This category of employees is subjected to skill-based training
depending on the work and job roles. Training matrix is designed based
on their job risk profiles. As and when required, refresher trainings
are provided to upgrade skills based on any changes in the work/job
profiles of employees.
During the period under review 10,000 manhours were clocked for
contractor safety trainings

(d) Employees with Disabilities

Training on various aspects are given to employees including persons
with disabilities

Principle 4
1

Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? Yes.
Yes/No

2

Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged, Yes. The Company has identified vulnerable groups who are targeted for
vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)

3

Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to engage with Being the first financial period, the Company was not required to spend
the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders? If so, any amount under CSR for financial period ended December 31, 2019
provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so
Principle 5

1

Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the No. It is applicable to all – Group, Joint Ventures, Suppliers, Contractors,
company or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/ NGOs and Others
Contractors/NGOs/Others?

2

How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past Nil
financial year and what percent was satisfactorily resolved by the
management

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

29

Principle 6
1

Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or No, It is applicable to all – Group, Joint Ventures, Suppliers, Contractors,
extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/ NGOs and Others
others?

2

Does the company have strategies/initiatives to address global Yes.
environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc.? https://new.abb.com/betterworld/how-abb-technology-mitigatesY/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc
climate-change
ABB Group’s recent (July 2019) statement on Climate Change and Global
Warming:
https://new.abb.com/sustainability/environment/abb-statement-onclimate-change-and-global-warming

3

Does the company identify and assess potential environmental Yes
risks? Y/N

4

Does the company have any project related to Clean Development No.
Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Also, if Yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed?

5

Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean Yes.
technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, https://new.abb.com/news/detail/4482/abb-ability-supports-indiasplease give hyperlink for web page etc
clean-energy-future

6

Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the Yes
permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being
reported

7

Number of show cause/legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB NIL
which are pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of
Financial Year
Principle 7

1

Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or association? No. We are in the process of enrolment with the following bodies.
If yes, name only those major ones that your business deals with:
(a) Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)
(b) Manufacturers’ Association (IEEMA)
(c) Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry
(d) Swiss Chamber of Commerce
(e) Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce

2

Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the No
advancement or improvement of public good? Yes/No; if yes
specify the broad areas ( drop box: Governance and Administration,
Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security,
Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others)
Principle 8

1

Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/projects Yes. The Company has a CSR policy and activities are on 5 key focal areas
in pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof.
for its social development projects.

2

Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house team/ Being the first financial period, the Company was not required to spend
own foundation/external NGO/government structures/any other any amount under CSR for financial period ended December 31, 2019
organization?

3

Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?

4

What is your company’s direct contribution to community Being the first financial period, the Company was not required to spend
development projects- Amount in INR and the details of the projects any amount under CSR for financial period ended December 31, 2019
undertaken?

NA

5

Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development Being the first financial period, the Company was not required to spend
initiative is successfully adopted by the community? Please explain any amount under CSR for financial period ended December 31, 2019
in 50 words, or so.
Principle 9

1

What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are NIL
pending as on the end of financial year.

2

Does the company display product information on the product label, No.
over and above what is mandated as per local laws? Yes/No/NA/
Remarks (additional information)

3

Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company No
regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/or
anti-competitive behaviour during the last five years and pending
as on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about
50 words or so.

4

Did your company carry out any consumer survey/consumer Yes
satisfaction trends?

30

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Notice to the Members
NOTICE is hereby given that the FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL
MEETING of the Members of ABB Power Products and
Systems India Limited (“the Company”) will be held on
Thursday, August 13, 2020 at 11.00 am (IST) through Video
Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”)
including remote e-voting process to transact the
following businesses. The venue of the meeting shall be
deemed to be the Registered Office of the Company at
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru - 560092.

period of 5 years till the conclusion of 6th Annual General
Meeting at a remuneration of INR 1,25,00,000/- (Rupees
One Crore and Twenty Five Lakhs only) for FY 2020 plus
applicable taxes in connection with the statutory audit of
the Company and related services.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the
Company be and is hereby authorized to do all acts and
take all such steps as may be necessary, proper or
expedient to give effect to this resolution.

Ordinary Business:

By Order of the Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

Item No. 1 – Adoption of Financial Statements and Reports
of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon.

Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741

To receive, consider and adopt the financial statements,
namely, (i) the Audited Balance Sheet as at December 31,
2019, (ii) the Audited Profit & Loss Account for the
financial period ended December 31, 2019, (iii) the Cash
Flow Statement for the financial period ended December
31, 2019, (iv) statement of changes in Equity, if any, (v) an
Explanatory Note annexed to, or forming part of, the
documents referred to in (i) to (iv) above and the Reports
of Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon.

Item No. 2 – Appointment of a Director
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Sanjeev Sharma
(DIN: 07362344), who retires by rotation at this Annual
General Meeting and being eligible, offers himself for
re- appointment.

Item No. 3 – Appointment of Statutory Auditors for a
term of 5 years
To consider and, if thought fit, to give your assent or
dissent to the following Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Sections 139, 142 of the
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and other applicable
provisions, if any, of the said Act and Companies (Audit
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 made thereunder and other
applicable rules, if any, under the said Act (including any
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the
time being in force), M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP,
Chartered Accountants (Registration No. 101049W/
E300004), be and is hereby appointed as the Statutory
Auditors of the Company commencing from the conclusion
of this Annual General Meeting to hold such office for a

Place: Bengaluru
Date: July 20, 2020
Registered Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401
Kodigehalli Main Road
Bengaluru - 560092
CIN: U31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 2204 1800
Notes:
1. This AGM is convened through Video Conferencing
(“VC”)/Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”) pursuant
to General Circular numbers 14/2020, 17/2020 and
20/2020, dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020 and May 5,
2020 respectively, issued by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs (MCA) and Circular number SEBI/HO/CFD/
CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 2020 issued by
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI
(hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘Circulars’),
which allow the companies to hold AGMs through VC/
OAVM.
2.

In compliance with the aforesaid Circulars, this AGM
Notice along with the Annual Report for the financial
period ended December 31, 2019 is sent only through
electronic mode to those Members whose E-mail
addresses are registered with the Company/
Depositories. The AGM notice and Annual Report of
the Company are made available on the Company’s
website at https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.
com/in/en and also on the website of the Stock
Exchanges where the shares of the Company have
been listed viz., BSE Limited - www.bseindia.com
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited www.nseindia.com. The Company has published a

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Public Notice by way of advertisement in Kannada
Language, the principal vernacular language of
Karnataka and in English language in an English
newspaper with the required details of 1st AGM for
information of the Members.
3.

The Company has availed the services of KFin
Technologies Private Limited, (KFintech) Registrar
and Transfer Agent of the Company, as the authorised
agency for conducting of the AGM through VC/OAVM
and providing e-voting facility

4.

Though a Member entitled to attend and vote at the
meeting, is entitled to appoint one or more proxies
(proxy need not be a member of the company to
attend and vote instead of himself/herself), the
facility of appointment of Proxies is not available as
the AGM is convened through VC/OAVM.

5.

Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM shall
be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum
under Section 103 of the Act.

6.

In case of joint holders only such joint holder who is
higher in the order of names will be entitled to vote
during the meeting.

7.

The statement pursuant to Section 102 of the
Companies Act, 2013 and applicable provisions of
SEBI
(Listing
Obligations
and
Disclosure
Requirements) 2015, setting out the material facts
concerning ordinary business at Item No 3 is annexed
hereto.

8.

9.

The Register of Members and the Share Transfer
Books of the Company will remain closed from August
7, 2020 to August 13, 2020 (both days inclusive) for the
purpose of annual general meeting.
It may be noted that the Company is not proposing any
dividend for financial period ended December 31,
2019. Also, this being the first financial period, there
was no requirement to transfer any dividends not
encashed or remaining unclaimed for a period of 7
(seven) years from the date of transfer to the
Company’s Unpaid Dividend Account, to the Investor
Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”), established
under Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013. Also,
there was no requirement to transfer all shares on
which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven
consecutive years or more to IEPF Authority as notified
by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. As the Company
was incorporated on February 19, 2019, it may be
noted that there is no Unclaimed Dividend lying with
the Company or in IEPF account. Pursuant to the
Scheme of Arrangement (Demerger), for the shares
that were allotted directly to IEPF account, the
concerned Members/claimants may claim the shares
by making an application to IEPF Authority in Form
IEPF 5 (available on www.iepf.gov.in) along with

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

31

requisite fee as decided by it from time to time. The
Member/claimant can file only one consolidated claim
in a financial year as per the IEPF Rules.
10. Members are requested to intimate, indicating their
folio number, the changes, if any, in their registered
address, either to the Company’s Registrar and Share
Transfer Agents at the address mentioned above or to
their respective Depository Participant (“DP”) in case
the shares are held in dematerialized form.
11. It is in the interest of Members to register their bank
details against their account for receiving the credit of
dividend (whenever declared in future) directly to their
bank account through electronic means. Members are
requested to note that, in order to avoid any loss/
interception in postal transit and also to get prompt
credit of dividend through National Electronic Clearing
Service (NECS)/Electronic Clearing Service (ECS) they
should submit their NECS/ECS details to the
Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents (RTA)
in case of holding shares in physical form and in case
Members holding shares in electronic form, they may
submit the NECS/ECS details to their depository
participant. The National Electronic Clearing Service
(NECS)/Electronic Clearing Service (ECS) form is
available with RTA and Depository Participant.
12. As a part of the green initiatives, the Members who
have not yet registered their E-mail addresses are
requested to register their E-mail addresses with
their DPs in case the shares are held by them in
electronic form and with KFintech in case the shares
are held by them in physical form. Upon such
Registration, all communication from the Company/
RTA will be sent to the registered E-mail address.
13. As required by Regulation 36 of Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the
Listing Regulations) and Secretarial Standard-2 on
General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company
Secretaries of India, the relevant detail of Director
seeking re-appointment at this Annual General
Meeting is given in the annexure to the Notice of the
Annual General Meeting.
14. The members/investors may send their complaints/
queries, if any to the Company’s Registrar and Share
Transfer Agents’ E-mail id: einward.ris@kfintech.com
or to the Company’s designated/exclusive E-mail
in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@abb.com
15. As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act and Rule
19(1) of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures)
Rules, 2014, Members holding shares in physical form
may file nomination in the prescribed Form SH-13
with the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer
Agents. In respect of shares held in demat form, the
nomination form may be filed with the respective DP.

32

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

16. As per Regulation 40 of SEBI Listing Regulations, as
amended, securities of listed companies can be
transferred only in dematerialized form with effect
from April 1, 2019, except in case of request received
for transmission or transposition of securities.
Hence, the Members holding shares in physical form
are requested to consider converting their holdings in
the dematerialized form. The Members who are
desirous to convert their physical holdings into
dematerialized form, may contact the Depository
Participant of their choice.

first-come-first-served basis. Facility of joining
AGM will be closed on expiry of 15 minutes from
the schedule time of the AGM.
v.

17. All documents referred in the accompanying Notice
and Statement setting out material facts will be
available electronically for inspection for Members on
all working days between 10.00 a.m. and 12.00 noon
up to Thursday, August 13, 2020 being the date of
the Annual General Meeting. Members seeking to
inspect such documents can send an E-mail to
in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@abb.com
18. Updation of Members’ details: The format of the
Register of Members prescribed by the Ministry of
Corporate Affairs under the Companies Act, 2013
requires the Company/Registrars and Share Transfer
Agents to record additional details of Members,
including their PAN details, E-mail address, bank
details for payment of dividend, etc. Members holding
shares in physical form are requested to furnish the
above details to the Company or KFintech, its
Registrars and Share Transfer Agents. Members
holding shares in electronic form are requested to
furnish the details to their respective DP.
19. Since the AGM being held through VC/OAVM, the
Route Map, Attendance Slip and proxy form are not
attached to this Notice.
20. INSTRUCTIONS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH
VC/OAVM AND VIEWING WEBCAST OF AGM:
i.

Members will be able to attend the AGM through
VC/OAVM or view the live Webcast of AGM at
https://emeetings.kfintech.com / by using their
remote e-voting login credentials;

ii.

After logging, go to Video Conference Tab and
click on camera icon appearing against AGM
event of ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited.

Members who would like to express their views or
ask questions during the AGM may register
themselves by logging on to https://emeetings.
kfintech.com and clicking on the ‘Speaker
Registration’ tab available on the screen after
log in. The Speaker Registration will be open
during August 10, 2020 from 9.00 am IST upto
August 11, 2020 5.00 pm IST. Only those members
who are registered will be allowed to express
their views or ask questions. Alternatively
members may also write to Company at
in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@abb.com
before
5.00 PM on August 11, 2020. The Company
reserves the right to restrict the number of
questions and number of speakers, depending
upon availability of time as appropriate for
smooth conduct of the AGM.

vi. Facility of joining the AGM through VC/OAVM
shall be available for 1000 members on
first-come-first-served basis. However, the
participation of members holding 2% or more
shares, promoters, and Institutional Investors,
directors, key managerial personnel, chairpersons
of Audit Committee, Stakeholders Relationship
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration
Committee and Auditors are not restricted on
first-come-first served basis.
vii. Members of the Company under the category of
Institutional Investors are encouraged to attend
the AGM and vote at the AGM, if not already voted
remotely.
viii. Members who need assistance before or during
the AGM may contact Ms. C Shobha Anand,
Deputy General Manager, KFin Technologies
Private Limited Tel +91 40 6716 2222 or Toll Free
No.: 1800-345-4001; or send an E-mail request
to shobha.anand@kfintech.com or evoting@
kfintech.com
21. E-Voting:
1

In compliance with the provisions of Section 108
of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 20 of the
Companies (Management and Administration)
Rules, 2014 as amended from time to time and
the provisions of Regulation 44 of the Listing
Regulations, the Members are provided with the
facility to cast their vote electronically, through
the remote e-voting services provided by KFin
Technologies Private Limited (KFintech) on all
resolutions set forth in this Notice.

2

The remote e-voting period commences at

iii. Members who do not have the User ID and
Password for e-voting or have forgotten the User
ID and Password may retrieve the same by
following the remote e-voting instructions
mentioned in the Notice.
iv. Facility of joining the AGM through VC/OAVM
shall open 30 minutes before the time scheduled
for the AGM and will be available for Members on

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

9.00 a.m. IST on Monday, August 10, 2020
and ends at 5.00 p.m. IST on Wednesday,
August 12, 2020. During this period shareholders
of the Company, holding shares either in physical
form or in dematerialized form, as on the cut-off
date i.e., Thursday, August 6, 2020, may cast
their vote electronically in the manner and
process set out hereinabove. The remote e-voting
module shall be disabled for voting thereafter.
Once the vote on a resolution is cast by the
Member, the Member shall not be allowed to
change it subsequently.
3

Launch internet browser by typing the URL:
https://evoting.karvy.com

ii.

Enter the login credentials (i.e. user ID and
password). In case of physical folio, user ID
will be EVEN number 5395 followed by folio
number. In case of Demat account, user ID
will be your DP ID and Client ID. However, if
you are already registered with KFintech for
remote e-voting, you can use your existing
user ID and password for casting your vote.

viii. Shareholders holding multiple folios/demat
accounts shall choose the voting process
separately for each folio/demat accounts.
ix. Voting has to be done for each item of the
notice separately. In case you do not desire
to cast your vote on any specific item it will
be treated as abstained.
x.

v.

You need to login again with the new
credentials.

You may then cast your vote by selecting an
appropriate option and click on “Submit”.

xi. A confirmation box will be displayed. Click
“OK” to confirm else “CANCEL” to modify.
Once you have voted on the resolution, you
will not be allowed to modify your vote.
During the voting period, Members can login
any number of times till they have voted on
the Resolution(s).

iii. After entering these details appropriately,
click on “LOGIN”.
iv. You will now reach password change menu
wherein you are required to mandatorily
change your password. The new password
shall comprise of minimum 8 characters with
at least one upper case (A-Z), one lower case
(a-z), one numeric value (0-9) and a special
character (@, #, $, etc.). The system will
prompt you to change your password and
update your contact details like mobile
number, E-mail ID etc. on first login. You may
also enter a secret question and answer of
your choice to retrieve your password in case
you or get it. It is strongly recommended that
you do not share your password with any
other person and that you take utmost care
to keep your password confidential.

33

AGAINST” taken together shall not exceed
your total shareholding as mentioned
hereinabove. You may also choose the option
ABSTAIN. If the shareholder does not indicate
either “FOR” or “AGAINST” it will be treated
as “ABSTAIN” and the shares held will not be
counted under either head.

Instructions for Remote E-voting are as under:
i.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

xii. Corporate/Institutional Members (i.e. other
than Individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) are also
required to send scanned certified true copy
(PDF Format) of the Board Resolution/
Authority Letter etc., to attend the AGM
through VC/OAVM on its behalf together
with attested specimen signature(s) of the
duly authorized representative(s), to the
Scrutinizer at E-mail cs.skannan@gmail.com
with a copy marked to evoting@kfintech.
com. The scanned image of the abovementioned documents should be in the
naming format “ABB Power Products and
Systems India Limited 1st Annual General
Meeting”.
4

Instructions for Members for Voting during the
AGM:
i.

vi. On successful login, the system will prompt
you to select the “EVENT” i.e., ABB Power
Products and Systems India Limited.

The procedure for remote e-voting during
the AGM is same as the instructions
mentioned above for remote e-voting since
the Meeting is being held through VC/OAVM.

ii.

vii. On the voting page, enter the number of
shares (which represents the number of
votes) as on the Cut-off Date under “FOR/
AGAINST” or alternatively, you may partially
enter any number in “FOR” and partially
“AGAINST” but the total number in “FOR/

The e-voting window shall be activated upon
instructions of the Chairman of the Meeting
during the AGM.

iii. E-voting during the AGM is integrated with
the VC platform and no separate login is
required for the same. The Members shall be
guided on the process during the AGM.

34

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

iv. Only those Members, who will be present in
the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have
not cast their vote on the Resolutions through
remote e-voting and are otherwise not barred
from doing so, shall be eligible to vote
through e-voting system during the AGM.
22. Procedure for registering the E-mail addresses and
obtaining the AGM Notice, Annual Report and e-voting
user ID and password by the Members whose E-mail
addresses are not registered with the Depositories
(in case of Members holding shares in Demat form) or
with KFintech (in case of Members holding shares in
physical form).
I.

Annual Report and e-voting user ID and password
to the Members.
23. Procedure to be followed by the Members updation
of bank account mandate for receipt of dividend
(whenever declared in future):
I.

Members holding shares in demat form can
get their E-mail ID registered by contacting
their respective Depository Participant.

b)

Members holding shares in physical form
may register their E-mail address and mobile
number with Company’s Registrar and
Transfer Agents, KFin Technologies Private
Limited by sending an E-mail request at
the E-mail ID einward.ris@kfintech.com
alongwith signed scanned copy of the
request letter providing the E-mail address,
mobile number, self-attested copy of the PAN
card and copy of the Share Certificate.

II. To facilitate Members to receive this Notice
electronically and cast their vote electronically,
the Company has made special arrangements
with KFintech for registration of E-mail addresses
of the Members in terms of the MCA Circulars.
Eligible Members who have not submitted their
E-mail address to the Depository Participant or
KFintech are required to provide their E-mail
address to KFintech, on or before 5:00 p.m. (IST)
on August 6, 2020.
a)

Visit the link: https://ris.kfintech.com/
email_registration
b) Select the Company name viz. ABB Power
Products and Systems India Limited
c) Enter the DP ID & Client ID/Physical Folio
Number
d) Enter the PAN details
e) Enter your E-mail address and Mobile
Number
f) The system will then confirm the E-mail
address for receiving this AGM Notice.
III. After successful registration of E-mail address,
KFintech will send by E-mail, the AGM Notice,

Send a request to KFintech at einward.ris@
kfintech.com by providing the following details:
a)
b)

Folio No., Name of the Member/s;
Name and Branch of the Bank in which you
wish to receive the dividend;
c) the Bank Account type;
d) Bank Account Number allotted by their bank
after implementation of Core Banking
Solutions;
e) 9-digit MICR Code Number; and
f) 11-digit IFSC Code

Those Members who have not yet registered their
E-mail addresses are requested to get their
E-mail addresses registered by following the
procedure given below:
a)

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

II.

Along with the request, attach the scanned copy
of Share Certificate (front and back), PAN
(self-attested scanned copy of PAN card),
scanned copy of cancelled cheque bearing the
name of the first Shareholder.

24. Other Instructions:
i.

In case of any queries, you may refer Help & FAQ
section of https://evoting.karvy.com or call
KFintech on 040-67162222 and Toll-Free No.
1800 3454 001.

ii.

Any person, who acquires shares of the Company
and becomes Member of the Company after
dispatch of the notice and holding shares as of
the cut-off date, i.e. Thursday, August 6, 2020
may obtain the login ID and password by sending
a request at evoting@karvy.com.

iii. However, if you are already registered with
KFintech for remote e-voting then you can use
your existing user ID and password for casting
your vote. If you forgot your password, you
can reset your password by using “Forgot
User Details / Password” option available on
https://evoting.karvy.com or call KFintech on
1800 3454 001 / 040-67162222.
iv. The voting rights of Members shall be in
proportion to their shares of the paid-up equity
share capital of the Company as on the cut-off
date i.e. Thursday, August 6, 2020.
v.

The Board of Directors has appointed
Mr. S Kannan, (Membership No. FCS 6261/CP No.
PCS 13016), Practicing Company Secretary and in
his absence Mr. B L Vinay, Practicing Company
Secretary, Bengaluru, (Membership No. A26638
and CP No. PCS 10760) as the Scrutinizer to

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

scrutinize the voting process in a fair and
transparent manner.
vi. The scrutinizer shall immediately after the
conclusion of voting at the general meeting,
count the votes cast at the meeting and votes
cast through remote e-voting in the presence
of at least two witnesses who are not in the
employment of the Company and within a period
not exceeding 48 hours from the conclusion of
the meeting, submit a consolidated Scrutinizer’s
Report of the total votes cast in favor or against,
if any, to the Chairman or person authorized by
the Chairman in writing for counter signature.
vii. The Results shall be declared either by the
Chairman or the person authorized by the
Chairman in writing and the resolutions will be

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

35

deemed to have been passed on the AGM date
subject to receipt of the requisite number of
votes in favor thereof.
viii. Promptly after declaration of results, the same
shall be placed along with the Scrutinizer’s
Report on the Company’s website at
https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en
and on the KFintech’s website at https://evoting.
karvy.com and communicated to BSE Limited and
National Stock Exchange of India Limited, where
the shares of the Company are listed for placing
the same in their website.
ix. A person who is not a member as on the cut-off
date, should treat this Notice for information
purpose only.

Information at a glance
Particulars

Information

Time and date of AGM

Thursday, August 13, 2020 at 11:00 am

Mode

Video conference and other audio-visual means

Participation through video conferencing

Refer instructions above

Helpline number for VC participation

Tel +91 40 6716 2222 or Toll-Free No.: 1800-345-4001

Webcast and transcripts

https://www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in/en

Cut-off date for e-voting

Thursday, August 6, 2020

E-voting start time and date

Monday, August 10, 2020 at 9:00 am (IST)

E-voting end time and date

Wednesday, August 12, 2020 at 5:00 pm (IST)

E-voting facility during the AGM

Members who have not exercised voting through remote e-voting can
exercise voting during and immediately after the conclusion of AGM

E-voting website of KFintech

URL:https://evoting.karvy.com

Name, address and contact details of Registrar and Transfer Agent
and e-voting service provider

Shobha Anand
Deputy General Manager
KFin Technologies Private Limited,
Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District, NanakramgudaSerilingampally, Mandal,
Hyderabad 500 032.
Contact details:
e-mail id:
shobha.anand@kfintech.com; einward.ris@kfintech.com;
Contact number: +91 40 6716 1559

By Order of the Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Place: Bengaluru
Date: July 20, 2020
Registered Office:
8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401
Kodigehalli Main Road
Bengaluru - 560092
CIN: U31904KA2019PLC121597
Phone: 080 2204 1800

36

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Explanatory statement
Annexed to the Notice convening the 1st Annual General
Meeting of the Company to be held on Thursday, August
13, 2020
Item No 3
a.

Proposed fees payable to the statutory auditor
along with terms of appointment and in case of
a new auditor, any material change in the fee
payable to such auditor from that paid to the
outgoing auditor along with the rationale for
such change;

Pursuant to provisions of Section 139 of the Act read
with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014,
M/s. B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Registration
No. 101248W/W-100022), were appointed as the First
Statutory Auditors of the Company from the date
of incorporation i.e. February 19, 2019 till conclusion
of first AGM of the Company. Accordingly, their term is
expiring at this ensuing 1st Annual General Meeting.
The present remuneration of M/s. B S R & Co. LLP,
Chartered Accountants for conducting the audit for the
financial period ended December 31, 2019, as approved by
the Board of Directors is INR 1,57,00,000/- (Rupees One
crores and Fiftyseven lakh only) including reimbursement
of out-of-pocket expenses but excluding applicable taxes
for conducting statutory audit for financial period ended
December 31, 2019 to be paid to Statutory Auditors. This
fee included INR 22,50,000/- (Rupees Twentytwo lakh fifty
thousand only) towards one-time additional fee to cover
demerger related certification and other efforts.
The Board of Directors of the Company (‘the Board’),
on the recommendation of the Audit Committee
(‘the Committee’), has recommended for the approval of
the Members, the appointment of M/s. S.R. Batliboi &
Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
101049W/E300004) as Statutory Auditors, for a period of
5 years, to hold office from the conclusion of 1st Annual
General Meeting until the conclusion of 6th Annual General
Meeting. On the recommendation of the Audit Committee,
the Board has also recommended for the approval of
the Members, the remuneration of M/s. S.R. Batliboi &
Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants for the financial
year 2020 as set out in the Resolution relating to their
appointment.
It is proposed to pay remuneration of INR 1,25,00,000/(Rupees One crore Twentyfive lakh only) for FY 2020 and
upto the conclusion of second Annual General Meeting. The
aforesaid fee is inclusive of out-of-pocket expenses but
does not include applicable taxes. The aforesaid fee will be
for performing statutory audit, limited review, tax audit
(including audit of tax financial) and group audit.
b.

Basis of recommendation for appointment
including the details in relation to and credentials

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

of the statutory auditor(s) proposed to be
appointed.
Consequent to the expiry of the term of M/s. B S R & Co.
LLP, Chartered Accountants as Statutory Auditors, the
Board of Directors, on recommendation of the Audit
Committee proposed to appoint M/s. S.R. Batliboi &
Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants as Statutory
Auditors of the Company effective from conclusion of
First Annual General Meeting to hold such office for
a term of 5 years till the conclusion of 6th Annual
General Meeting. The Company has received consent
from M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP, Chartered
Accountants under Sections 139 and 141 of the Companies
Act, 2013 confirming their eligibility to be appointed as
Statutory Auditors of the Company.
The Committee considered various parameters like
capability to serve a diverse and complex business
landscape as that of the Company, audit experience in the
Company’s operating segments, market standing of the
firm, clientele served, technical knowledge etc., and found
M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants
to be best suited to handle the scale, diversity and
complexity associated with the audit of the financial
statements of the Company.
Members are requested to consider the same and accord
their approval towards appointment of M/s. S.R. Batliboi
& Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants as Statutory
Auditors of the Company for a term of five years.
None of the Directors and/or Key Managerial Personnel
of the Company and/or their respective relatives is
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the
Ordinary Resolution set out at Item No. 3 of the Notice.
By Order of the Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS 4741
Place: Bengaluru
Date: July 20, 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

37

—
Annexure to AGM Notice
DETAILS OF THE DIRECTOR SEEKING APPOINTMENT AT THE 1ST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING [PURSUANT TO REGULATION
36(3) OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS 2015]
Name of the Director

MR SANJEEV SHARMA

DIN

07362344

Date of Birth and age

November 10, 1965, 54 years

Nationality

Indian

Date of Appointment on the Board

February 19, 2019

Qualifications

Graduate in Electronics and Telecommunications Engineering and Executive
Masters Degree in Business Administration

Expertise in specific functional area

Power grids business and refer information mentioned below

Number of shares held in the Company

NIL

List of the directorships held in other companies

1
2
3
4

ABB India Limited
ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited
Swedish Chamber of Commerce India
ABB Substations Contracting India Private Limited

Chairman/ Member in the Committees of the Boards of other
companies in which he is Director*

1

Member of Stakeholders Relationship Committee of ABB India Limited

Number of Board Meetings attended during the financial period
2019**

8

Relationships between Directors inter-se

NA

Remuneration details (Including Sitting Fees & Commission)

Not drawing any remuneration or commission or sitting fees in the capacity
of Director from ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited.

Details of remuneration sought to be paid

Not applicable

Occupation

Service

Brief profile

Sanjeev Sharma is a Non-Executive Director of the Company. He has pursued
management programs from IMD Switzerland and INSEAD Singapore.
He is the Managing Director of ABB India Limited and also responsible for
ABB footprint in Bangladesh & Sri Lanka. He is the Chairman and Managing
Director of ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited. He has
managed in his 30 year ABB tenure various Global business leadership roles
including leading a Global Business Unit for ABB with base in Switzerland,
Germany, Malaysia and now leading ABB in India. He is a director of Swedish
Chamber Of Commerce India, ABB Bangladesh and ABB Srilanka. He brings
extensive experience in industrial automation and electrification across
market segments and geographies and has led several successful change
management initiatives across global operations.

* Committee membership includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of Public Limited
Company (whether Listed or not) excluding that of ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited. Directorships in
foreign companies, membership in governing councils, chambers and other bodies, etc has not been provided.
The aforesaid Director is not related to any other Director.
**captured from the time of his appointment till the financial period ended December 31, 2019.
By Order of the Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

Poovanna Ammatanda
General Counsel & Company Secretary
FCS-4741
Place: Bengaluru
Date: July 20, 2020

38

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Directors’ Report
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting their first annual report and audited accounts for the financial period ended
December 31, 2019.
1.

Financial results:

(Amount in INR Crores)

Particulars

19.2.2019 to 31.12.2019*
3,230.74

Revenue from operations
Other income

0.47

Total income

3,231.21

Less: expenses

2,894.98

Profit before depreciation, finance costs, exceptional items and tax expense

336.23

Less: Depreciation/Amortisation/Impairment

48.41

Profit/loss before finance costs, exceptional items and tax expense

287.82

Less: Finance costs

26.38

Profit before exceptional items and tax expense

261.44

Add/(less): Exceptional items

(40.79)

Profit before tax expense

220.65

Less: Tax expense (current & deferred)

55.26

Profit for the year (1)

165.39
0.50

Other comprehensive income (2)
Total (1+2)

165.89

Balance of retained earnings transferred pursuant to the scheme of arrangement

149.93

Less: Transfer to debenture redemption

-

Reserve Less: Transfer to reserves

-

Less: Dividend paid on equity shares

-

Dividend paid on preference shares

-

Dividend distribution tax

-

Balance carried forward

315.82

*Since your Company was incorporated on February 19, 2019, previous year figures are not applicable

2.

Performance review:
During the financial period ended December 2019,
orders touched INR 2,641.9 crore. The orders
witnessed a healthy growth reflecting the technology
push and continued traction in transformers and
system integration. The order backlog at the end of
the year stood at INR 5,100.7 crore which continued to
provide visibility to the future revenue streams.
The revenue from operations for your Company for
the financial period ended December 2019 stood at
INR 3,231.2 crore, reflecting stability of operations
in an uncertain market situation. Profit before tax
was at INR 220.65 crore mainly due to operational
efficiencies. Net profit after tax was at INR 165.39
crore. Consequently, the earnings per share for the
financial period ended December 31, 2019 stood at
INR 44.69.

For detailed analysis of the performance, including
industry overview, changes and outlook, please refer
to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report
provided in Annexure – A, forming part of this Report.

3.

COVID-19:
Your Company has been responding to the COVID-19
pandemic by looking after its entire eco-system
of employees, customers and suppliers, with focus
on health awareness and safety measures. As a
responsible corporate citizen, your Company has
always maintained strict adherence to the direction/
guidelines of central, state and local authorities.
In accordance with the order of Ministry of Home
Affairs’ for national lockdown from March 25, 2020,
operations across plants, project sites and offices
were closed. Your Company will resume operations as

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

4.

Notes 37 of the Financial Statements for the period
ended December 31, 2019 (“Statements”).

Dividend:

a.

The Board’s responses to the qualifications and other
observations or adverse remarks are as follows.

Scheme of Arrangement:
A Scheme of Arrangement (“Scheme”) was entered
into between (i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”/
“Transferor”) (a subsidiary of your Company’s
Promoter, ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd) and (ii) your
Company (“Company”/“Transferee”) and their
respective shareholders and creditors, pursuant to
the provisions of Section 230 to 232 and other
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,
which provided for inter alia the Demerger of
the Power Grids Business of INABB (“Demerged
Undertaking”) and the consequent issuance of equity
shares by the Company to the shareholders of INABB
as per the Share Entitlement Ratio.
The Scheme was approved by your Board of Directors
pursuant to its resolution dated March 5, 2019 and the
Board of Directors of INABB pursuant to its resolution
dated March 5, 2019. Pursuant to an order dated June
27, 2019, passed by the National Company Law
Tribunal, Bengaluru Bench, (“NCLT”), meetings of the
equity shareholders and the creditors of INABB were
convened. The equity shareholders and the creditors
of INABB approved the Scheme at court convened
meetings, each held on August 9, 2019. The NCLT
approved the Scheme on November 27, 2019. The
Appointed Date of the Scheme was April 1, 2019 and
the Effective Date was December 1, 2019.
The Scheme provided for the transfer by way of a
demerger of the Demerged Undertaking and the
consequent issue of equity shares by the Company to
the shareholders of INABB in accordance with the
Share Entitlement Ratio, and various other matters
consequential or integrally connected therewith,
including the re-organisation of the share capital of
the Transferee, pursuant to Sections 230 to 232 of the
Companies Act, 2013, the SEBI circulars and in
compliance with the Income Tax Act, 1961

6.

39

may be permitted by various governing authorities.
While your Company has made every effort to swiftly
adapt to the new norm, the closures will likely have an
impact on its performance which can only be gauged
in the quarter ending June 30, 2020.

This being the first year of business operation and
consequent to the demerger of Power Grids Business,
your Directors have not recommended any dividend
for the period ended December 31, 2019.
5.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Board of Directors’ response to observations,
qualifications and adverse remarks in Auditor’s
Report
The Statutory Auditors (“Auditors”) have qualified
their opinion in relation to the matters specified in

Qualified Opinion: We have audited the financial
statements of ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited (“the Company”), which comprise
the balance sheet as at 31 December 2019, and
the statement of profit and loss (including other
comprehensive income), statement of changes in
equity and statement of cash flows for the period
from February 19, 2019 (date of incorporation) to
December 31, 2019 (“the period”), and notes to
the financial statements, including a summary of
the significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information
and according to the explanations given to us,
except for the effects of the matter described in
the Basis for Qualified Opinion section of our
report, the aforesaid financial statements give
the information required by the Companies Act,
2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and give a
true and fair view in conformity with the
accounting principles generally accepted in
India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at
December 31, 2019, and its profit and other
comprehensive income, changes in equity and its
cash flows for the period.

b.

Basis for Qualified Opinion: We draw attention to
Note 37 to the financial statements regarding the
Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’) for demerger
of the power grid business of ABB India Limited
with the Company. The scheme of arrangement
(“Scheme”) as envisaged and entered into
between (i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”/
“Transferor”) and (ii) the Company (“Company”/
“Transferee”) and their respective shareholders
and creditors, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 230 to 232 and other applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, which
provided for inter alia the Demerger of the
Power Grids Business of INABB (“Demerged
Undertaking”), with an appointed date of April 1,
2019, has been approved by the National
Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’) vide its order
dated November 27, 2019 and a certified copy has
been filed by the Company with the Registrar of
Companies, Bangalore, on December 1, 2019.
As per the applicable accounting standard Ind
AS 103, since this demerger is a common control
business combination, the financial information
necessitates restatement by the transferee at
carrying amounts not from the appointed date
but from the beginning of the preceding period in
the financial statements which happens to be the

40

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

date of incorporation i.e. February 19, 2019.
Consequentially, the Company is required as per
Ind AS 103 to give effect to the business
combination from February 19, 2019 (date of its
incorporation). However, the Company has
recognized the impact of the business
combination only from April 1, 2019 (i.e. the
appointed date specified in the scheme).
Accordingly, we are unable to comment on the
resultant impact on the Company’s statement of
profit and loss (including other comprehensive
income), statement of changes in equity and
statement of cash flows for the period from
February 19, 2019 to March 31, 2019. However,
there is no impact of the same on the Company’s
balance sheet as at December 31, 2019.
c.

Board’s response to qualification in Auditor’s
Report: The Statutory Auditors (“Auditors”) have
qualified their opinion in relation to the matters
specified in Notes 37 of the Financial Statements
for the period ended December 31, 2019
(“Statements”). The Board’s responses to the
qualifications are as follows.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

year commences on January 1 and ends on December
31 of a given year.
8.

Material changes and commitments, if any,
affecting the financial position of the company,
having occurred since the end of the year and till
the date of this report and disclosures:
Other than those mentioned in this Report, there have
been no material changes and commitments, which
affect the financial position of the Company which
have occurred between the end of the financial period
to which the financial statements relate and the date
of this Report.

9.

Extract of Annual Return:
As per provisions of Section 92 (3) of the Act read with
Rule 12 of the Companies (Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014 as amended from time to
time, the extract of the Annual Return in the Form
MGT-9 is given in Annexure – B, forming part of this
report.

10. Board Meetings held during the period:
The management has taken note of the basis for
qualified opinion of the Auditors and believes that
due to incoherence between the appointed date
i.e., April 1, 2019 and date of incorporation i.e.
February 19, 2019 and auditors opinion on Ind AS
103 such a one off situation has arisen. Further, in
addition to what has been stated in Note 37 of the
Statements, we wish to state that in anticipation
of reorganisation of ABB India Limited’s business
by way of said Scheme, the Company was
incorporated. Such date of incorporation is not
in control of the Company. The Registrar of
Companies issued the certificate of incorporation
on February 19, 2019. The management confirms
that, during the period between February 19, 2019
and March 31, 2019, no active business was
undertaken other than the initial paid up share
capital. In light of the above, there is no impact on
the financial statements of the Company as at
December 31, 2019 as affirmed by the Auditors.
7.

Change in the financial year:
Your Company was incorporated on February 19, 2019
with first financial year commencing on February 19,
2019 and ending on March 31, 2020. Your Company
subsequently made an application to the Regional
Director, South East Region, Ministry of Corporate
Affairs, Hyderabad on November 5, 2019 to change
your Company’s first financial year from February 19,
2019 to December 31, 2019. Pursuant to an order
bearing no. F.No:10/19/Karnataka/RD (SER)/2(41) of
2013/2019/6328 dated December 12, 2019, passed by
the Regional Director, South East Region, Ministry of
Corporate Affairs, Hyderabad the Company’s financial

During the financial period under review, nine (9)
meetings of the Board of Directors were held. The
Company re-constituted the Board and has appointed
independent directors. The details of the meetings
are furnished in the Corporate Governance section
forming part of this report.
11. Independent directors and compliance on criteria
of independence by the independent directors
The following independent directors were appointed
during the period under review and the Board is of the
view that they have adequate expertise, experience
and proficiency.
Mr. Mukesh Butani holds a bachelor’s degree in
commerce from Mumbai University. He is a certified
chartered accountant from the Indian Institute of
Chartered Accountants. He founded BMR Legal
Advocates, a tax law firm in India. He has expertise in
taxation laws.
Ms. Akila Krishnakumar is an alumnus of Birla
Institute of Technology and Sciences. She was
previously the president – global technology and
country head of Sun Gard, which was acquired by
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. She has
expertise in diverse business profiles.
Ms. Nishi Vasudeva holds a bachelor’s degree in
economics from Delhi University and is an
alumnus of Indian Institute of Management,
Calcutta. She was the Chairman and Managing
Director of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

41

Limited till March 2016. She has expertise in diverse
business profiles.

has proposed not to transfer any amount to the
General Reserves.

All independent directors of the Company have given
declarations to the Company under Section 149 (7) of
the Act that, they meet the criteria of independence
as provided in Sub-Section 6 of Section 149 of the Act
and also under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing
Regulations). In the opinion of the Board, they fulfil
the conditions of independence as specified in the
Act and the Listing Regulations and are independent
of management. The independent directors have
affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct, as on
December 31, 2019. During the financial period, a
separate meeting of the independent directors was
not required to be held as Board was re-constituted
and independent directors were appointed w.e.f.
December 24, 2019.

16. Conservation of energy, technology absorption,
foreign exchange earnings and outgo:

12. Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the
Company:
The Board of Directors have constituted a Nomination
and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) on December
24, 2019. The Remuneration Policy of the Company
for appointment and remuneration of the Directors,
Key Managerial Personnel and Senior Management of
the Company along with other related matters have
been provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
The nomination and remuneration policy is available
on the website of the Company: https://new.abb.
com/gr id/appsil/investors-sec tion/board - ofdirectors.

The particulars as prescribed under Section 134 of
the Act read with Rule 8 (3) of the Companies
(Accounts) Rules, 2014, relating to Conservation of
Energy, Technology Absorption, Foreign Exchange
Earnings and Outgo are given in Annexure – D,
forming part of this report.
17. Risk Management:
Your Company has constituted a Risk Management
committee on December 24, 2019 and adopted
a Risk Management Policy as required under
Companies Act 2013 and Listing Regulations. The
Committee oversees the Risk Management process
including risk identification, impact assessment,
effective implementation of the mitigation plans
and risk reporting. The purpose of the Committee
is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its
oversight responsibilities with regard to enterprise
risk management. The details and the process
of Risk Management are provided as part of
Management’s Discussion and Analysis which forms
part of this Report.
18. Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives:

As required under Regulation 43A of the Listing
Regulations, the Company has a policy on dividend
distribution. This policy can be accessed on the
Company’s website at https://new.abb.com/grid/
appsil/investors-section

The Board of Directors have constituted a
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee
on December 24, 2019 as required under the
Act for implementing various CSR activities and
adopted CSR Policy at its meeting held on April 30,
2020. Composition of the Committee and other details
are provided in Corporate Governance Report which
forms part of this Report. During the period under
review, your Company was not required to spend
any amount on CSR activities since the criteria
specified in Section 135 of the Companies Act,
2013 was not applicable and also being the first
year of incorporation. Detailed report on CSR
activities as required under the Companies (Corporate
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 is given in
Annexure – E, forming part of this Report.

14. Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments
under Section 186 of the Act:

19. Annual evaluation of Board, its Committees and
Individual Directors:

During the period under review, your Company has not
granted any Loan, Guarantees or made investments
within the meaning of Section 186 of the Act.

Since the Board of Directors were reconstituted
effective December 24, 2019, and this being the first
year of operation, your Company was listed effective
March 30, 2020, carrying out of an annual evaluation
of Board of Directors of its own performance, its
Committees pursuant to the requirements of the Act
and the Listing Regulations, was not applicable for
the financial period under review.

A Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration pursuant
to Section 197 of the Act read with Rule 5(1) of
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is provided in
Annexure – C, forming part of this report.
13. Dividend distribution policy:

15. Amount, if any, proposed to be transferred to
Reserves:
For the financial period under review, your Company

42

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

20. Audit Committee and its recommendations:
The Board constituted an Audit Committee of Directors
on December 24, 2019. The details pertaining to
composition of the Audit Committee and terms of
reference are included in the Corporate Governance
Report, which forms part of this Report. The Board has
accepted all recommendation of Audit Committee,
made during the financial period under review.
21. Related Party Transactions:
The Board of Directors have adopted a policy on
Related Party Transactions at its meeting held on
December 24, 2019. The objective is to ensure proper
approval, disclosure and reporting of transactions as
applicable, between the Company and any of its
related parties.
Transactions with related parties, as per requirements
of Indian Accounting Standard have been disclosed
in the accompanying financial statements. Your
Company’s Policy on Related Party Transactions, as
adopted by your Board, can be accessed on the
Company’s website. Link for the same is: https://new.
abb.com/grid/appsil/investors-section
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd hold 10% or more shares
in the Company. The details of transactions with
promoter/promoter group holding 10% or more
shares have been disclosed in the accompanying
financial statements.
Consequent to the Scheme of Arrangement becoming
effective from December 1, 2019, to ensure
continuation of operations of the demerged Power
Grids business by your Company, it was agreed to
seek certain services from ABB India Limited
(“Transferor”) by entering into some Transitional
Agreements and also executed certain Lease
Agreements. These agreements fall within the
definition of Related Party Transaction under the
provisions of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013,
requiring disclosures to be made in Form No. AOC-2
pursuant to Section 134 of the Act read with Rule 8 of
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 which is
attached as Annexure-F.
22. Reporting of frauds:
There was no instance of fraud during the period
under review, which required the statutory auditors to
report to the Audit Committee and/or Board under
Section 143(12) of the Act and Rules framed thereunder.
23. Transfer to Investor Education and Protection Fund:
As your Company was incorporated on February 19,
2019, and that no dividend was recommended/
declared during the financial period ended December

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

31, 2019 there is no unclaimed dividend during the
financial period under review and therefore, no
dividend amount was transferred as required under
Section 124 of the Act, to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by the Central
Government. Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General
Counsel , Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
has been appointed as the Nodal Officer of the
Company.
Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement (entered into
between Company, ABB India Limited and their
respective Shareholders and Creditors) approved by
NCLT vide its order dated November 27, 2019, your
Company allotted on December 24, 2019, equity
shares to the shareholders of ABB India Limited. Out
of 4,23,81,675 Equity shares allotted, 1,07,421 Equity
Shares were directly allotted to the IEPF account
as a consequence of issue of Equity Shares by your
Company to the shareholders of ABB India Limited in
accordance with the Share Entitlement Ratio.
As explained above, as no dividend was declared
since incorporation of the Company nor transferred
to IEPF, other details like amount of unclaimed/
unpaid dividend and the corresponding shares were
not applicable for the period under review. Also,
redemption amount of preference shares, amount of
matured deposits, for companies other than banking
companies, along with interest accrued thereon,
amount of matured debentures along with interest
accrued thereon, application money received for
allotment of any securities and due for refund along
with interest accrued, sale proceeds of fractional
shares arising out of issuance of bonus shares,
merger and amalgamation resultant benefits on
shares transferred to the IEPF, year wise amount
of unpaid/unclaimed dividend lying in the unpaid
account upto the year and the corresponding
shares, which are liable to be transferred to the IEPF,
and the due dates for such transfer, the amount of
donation, if any, given by the company to the IEPF,
such other amounts transferred to the IEPF, if any,
during the period under review are not applicable.
24. Particulars of employees including remuneration of
directors and employees:
The information on employee particulars,as required
under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2)
and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
as amended from time to time, are given in
Annexure-G, forming part of this report. In terms of
Section 136 of the Act, the Report and Financial
Statements are being sent to the Members and
others entitled thereto, excluding this Annexure. This
Annexure shall be provided to Members on a specific
request made in writing to the Company. The said
information is available for inspection by the Members

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

at the Registered Office of the Company on any
working day upto the date of the 1st Annual General
Meeting. Consequent to the sanction of the Scheme
of Arrangement and the effective date of the Scheme
being December 01, 2020, employees pertaining
to power grid business were transferred to your
Company. Since the appointed date for the Scheme is
April 01, 2019, details of employees under this section
is for the period from April 1, 2019 to December 31,
2019. The Managing Director of the Company did not
draw any remuneration from holding company from
the date of his appointment as Managing Director of
the Company, i.e. December 2, 2019. Your Company
did not have any joint venture or subsidiary Company.
25. Directors’ Responsibility Statement:
To the best of knowledge and belief and according
to the information and explanations obtained by us,
your Directors make the following statements
in terms of Section 134(3)(c) and 134(5) of the
Act, that:
a.

in the preparation of the annual accounts, the
applicable accounting standards have been
followed along with proper explanation relating
to material departures;

b.

they have selected such accounting policies and
applied them consistently and made judgments
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
so as to give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company at December 31, 2019, and
of the profit and loss of the Company for the
period ended on that date;

c.

they have taken proper and sufficient care for the
maintenance of adequate accounting records in
accordance with the provisions of the Act for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and for
preventing and detecting fraud and other
irregularities;

d.

they have prepared the annual accounts on a
going concern basis;

e.

they have laid down internal financial controls to
be followed by the Company and that such
internal financial controls are adequate and were
operating effectively;and

f.

they have devised proper systems to ensure
compliance with the provisions of all applicable
laws and that such systems were adequate and
operating effectively.

26. Disclosure on confirmation with the Secretarial
Standards:
Your Directors confirm that the Secretarial Standards

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

43

issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of
India have been duly complied with.
27. Corporate Governance Report and Certificate:
As required under Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule
V (C) of the Listing Regulations, a report on Corporate
Governance and the certificate as required under
Schedule V (E) of the Listing Regulations from
Messrs V. Sreedharan & Associates, Practicing
Company Secretaries, regarding compliance of
conditions of Corporate Governance are given in
Annexure – H and Annexure – I respectively, forming
part of this report.
28. Secretarial Audit:
Pursuant to provisions of Section 204 of the Act read
with Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
and amendments thereto, your Company engaged
the services of Messrs BMP & Co. LLP, Company
Secretaries, Bengaluru, to conduct the Secretarial
Audit of the Company for the financial period ended
December 31, 2019. The Secretarial Audit Report in
Form MR-3 is given in Annexure – J, forming part of
this report.
29. Business Responsibility Report:
As required under Regulation 34 of the Listing
Regulations, the Business Responsibility Report
forms part of the Annual Report.
30. Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil Mechanism:
The Company has adopted a vigil mechanism/
whistle blower policy on December 24, 2019 for
Directors and Employees to report their concerns
about unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud
or violation of the Company’s Code of conduct. The
mechanism provides for adequate safeguards against
victimization of Director(s) and Employee(s) who avail
of the mechanism. The policy provides for direct
access to the higher levels of supervisors and/or to
the Chairman of the Audit Committee, in appropriate
or exceptional cases.
The Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil Mechanism is available
on Company’s website : https://new.abb.com/grid/
appsil/investors-section
31. Directors and Key Managerial Personnel:
During the period under review, Mr. Sanjeev Sharma,
Mr. Sridhar Krishnaswamy Tyagavalli and Mr. Gururaj
Bhujangarao were appointed as the First Directors
upon incorporation of your Company w.e.f. February
19, 2019.

44

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Mr. Achim Michael Braun and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka
were appointed as Additional Directors w.e.f.
November 22, 2019. Mr. Venu Nuguri was appointed as
Additional Director w.e.f. December 2, 2019.
Mr. Ajay Singh was appointed as Chief Financial
Officer w.e.f. December 02, 2019 and Mr. Poovanna C.
Ammatanda was appointed as General Counsel,
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer w.e.f.
December 2, 2019.
Mr. Frank Duggan was appointed as Non-Executive,
Non-Independent Director and Chairman of the
Company w.e.f. December 24, 2019. Mr. Mukesh
Butani, Ms. Akila Krishnakumar and Ms. Nishi
Vasudeva were appointed as Non-Executive and
Independent Directors w.e.f. December 24, 2019.
Mr. Achim Michael Braun and Mr. Ismo Antero Haka
resigned as Directors w.e.f. December 16, 2019 due
to pre-occupation. Mr. Gururaj Bhujangarao and
Mr. Sridhar Krishnaswamy Tyagavalli resigned as
Directors w.e.f. December 24, 2019 due to the
reconstitution of the Board of Directors. Your
Directors place on record their sincere appreciation
of the valuable contribution made by them.
The appointment of additional directors of Mr. Frank
Duggan, Mr. Mukesh Butani, Ms Akila Krishnakumar,
Ms. Nishi Vasudeva, Mr. Venu Nuguri is proposed to
be regularised by way of postal ballot exercise
to be conducted prior to convening first Annual
General Meeting.
The Board of Directors approved the appointment
of Mr. Venu Nuguri as Managing Director w.e.f.
December 2, 2019. Consequently, it will be proposed
to the Shareholders to approve the appointment
of Mr. Venu Nuguri as Managing Director for a
term of 3 years w.e.f. December 2, 2019 along with
other terms and conditions of services including
remuneration by way of postal ballot exercise to be
conducted prior to the convening of first Annual
General Meeting.
Apart from aforesaid changes there are no changes
in Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company from end of financial period upto the date
of this report. Details of Directors, Key Managerial
Personnel and Composition of various Committees of
the Board are provided in the Corporate Governance
Report forming part of this report.
Mr. Sanjeev Sharma and Mr. Frank Duggan are
Directors liable to retire by rotation. In accordance
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013
read with Articles of Association of the Company,
Mr. Sanjeev Sharma (DIN: 07362344), Director, is
retiring by rotation at the ensuing Annual General
Meeting of the Company, and being eligible, has
offered himself for re-appointment.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Necessary resolution relating to Mr. Sanjeev Sharma,
Director, who is seeking re-appointment as a Director
is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The relevant details of Mr. Sanjeev Sharma is given in
the annexure to the Notice of the Annual General
Meeting.
As on December 31, 2019, and as on date, Mr. Venu
Nuguri, Managing Director, Mr. Ajay Singh, Chief
Financial Officer, and Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda,
General Counsel, Company Secretary and Compliance
Officer are the Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company.
32. Deposits:
During the period under review, your Company did
not accept any deposit within the meaning of the
provisions of Chapter V – Acceptance of Deposits by
Companies of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the
Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014.
33. Share Capital and Debt structure:
Your Company was incorporated with an Authorised
share capital of INR 5,00,000/- divided into 2,50,000
Equity shares of INR 2 each.
Consequent to the Scheme of Arrangement between
ABB India Limited (Transferor) and your Company
becoming effective and in consideration of vesting
of the Demerged Undertaking from ABB India Limited
to the Company, the authorized share capital
stood increased to INR 10,00,00,000/- divided into
5,00,00,000 equity shares of INR 2/- each w.e.f.
December 9, 2019, your Company has on December
24, 2019, issued and allotted one fully paid Equity
Share of INR 2/- each of the Company for every five
fully paid up equity shares of INR 2/- each held in
the Transferor (“Share Entitlement Ratio”) to the
shareholders of the Transferor, as on December 23,
2019, (“Record Date”). Thus 4,23,81,675 Equity Shares
of INR 2 each were allotted. Pursuant to the terms of
Scheme and its approval, entire pre-scheme share
capital of 50,000 Equity shares of INR 2/- held by
ABB India Limited stood cancelled automatically.
Out of this 4,23,81,675 equity shares, Company
allotted 9,266 Equity shares (pursuant to fractional
entitlements of Members of ABB India Limited as per
share entitlement ratio) and the shares have been
allotted to ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited Fractional Shares Trust 2019 which has been
constituted specifically to hold the shares on behalf
of the entitled shareholders of fractional shares
in accordance with the Scheme of Arrangement and
the same will be sold in the market and the sale
proceeds would be distributed amongst the entitled
shareholders.
The Company has received listing approval from BSE
Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of India

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Limited (“NSE”) and 4,23,81,675 equity shares of the
Company have been listed and trading commenced
w.e.f. March 30, 2020, on BSE & NSE.
Pursuant to a resolution passed by the Shareholders
of your Company on November 26, 2019 and subject
to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the
Articles of Association, the Board is authorised to
borrow money, as and when required, from, including
without limitation, any bank and/or other financial
institution and/or foreign lender and/or anybody
corporate/entities/and/or authorities, either in
Rupees or in such other foreign currencies as may be
permitted by law from time to time, as may be
deemed appropriate by the Board for an aggregate
amount not exceeding a sum of INR 5,000 crores
for the Company, notwithstanding that money so
borrowed together with the monies already
borrowed by the Company, if any (apart from
temporary loans obtained from the Company’s
bankers in ordinary course of business) may
exceed the aggregate of the paid-up capital of
the Company, its free reserves and securities
premium. Pending establishment of banking limits,
your Company borrowed from ABB India Limited and
the outstanding loan as on December 31, 2019,
payable by your Company was INR 347.62 crores.
Subsequently, your Company has repaid the entire
amount of loan availed from ABB India Limited and
established banking limits.
There was no issue of preference shares, debenture,
warrants or other convertible securities during the
financial period under review. The Company has not
issued any shares with differential voting rights,
bonus shares, sweat equity shares, employees stock
option nor bought back any share during the financial
period under review. No shares were held in the trust
for the benefit of employees during the financial
period under review. Your Company did not secure
any credit rating during the period under review.
There has been no revision of financial statement or
report, no change in nature of business. There was no
instance of Statement indicating deviations, if any, in
the use of proceeds from the objects stated in the
offer document or explanatory statement to the
notice for the general meeting.
34. Significant and material orders passed by the
regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the
going concern status of the Company:
During the period under review, no significant and
material orders were passed by the regulators or
courts or tribunals impacting the going concern
status of the Company.
With regard to the Demerger, the National Company
law Tribunal (NCLT), Bengaluru bench approved the
Scheme of Arrangement (Demerger) vide its order
dated November 27, 2019.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

45

With regard to listing process of the Company’s
equity shares and in terms of the SEBI circular no.
CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21 dated March 10, 2017 as
amended vide SEBI circular dated Jan 3, 2018 (“SEBI
Circular”), the Company was required to list the equity
shares of the Company with BSE Limited and National
Stock Exchange of India Limited within 60 days of the
date of the receipt of the order approving the Scheme
of Arrangement. SEBI vide letter dated March 13, 2020
notified to the Company, the delay in compliance with
the SEBI Circular and to ensure compliance in future.
35. Internal financial
adequacy:

control

systems

and

their

The details on Internal financial control systems and
their adequacy are provided in the Management’s
Discussion and Analysis which forms part of this
Report.
36. Disclosure as per the Sexual Harassment of
Women at Work place (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act,2013:
The Company has zero tolerance towards sexual
harassment at the workplace and has adopted a
policy on prevention, prohibition and redressal of
sexual harassment at workplace in line with the
provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013, and the Rules there under w.e.f.
February 28, 2020. As required under law, an Internal
Complaints Committee has been constituted for
reporting and conducting inquiry into the complaints
made by the victim on the harassments at the work
place. During the period under review, no cases were
reported.
37. Statutory Auditors:
Pursuant to provisions of Section 139 of the Act
read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors)
Rules, 2014, M/s. B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered
Accountants (Registration No. 101248W/W-100022),
were appointed as the first Statutory Auditors of the
Company. Their term expires at the conclusion of First
Annual General Meeting of the Company.
For next term, your Directors have recommended
appointment of M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP,
Chartered Accountants (Registration No. 101049W/
E300004) as Statutory Auditors, for a period of five
years, to hold office from the conclusion of first
Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of sixth
Annual General Meeting at such remuneration as may
be mutually agreed. Consent of members is being
sought in the notice convening the first Annual
General Meeting seeking appointment.

46

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

38. Cost Audit and Cost Auditor of the Company:
The provisions of Section 148 of the Act read with the
Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014,
were applicable to the Company and accordingly
the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of
the Audit Committee, appointed Messrs Ashwin
Solanki & Associates, Cost Accountants (Registration
No: 100392) as Cost Auditor of the Company, for
the financial period ending December 31, 2019, for
conducting the audit of the cost records maintained
by the Company.
The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of
the Audit Committee, has appointed Messrs Ashwin
Solanki & Associates, Cost Accountants (Registration
No: 100392) as Cost Auditor of the Company, for
the financial year ending December 31, 2020, for
conducting the audit of the cost records maintained
by the Company.
A Certificate from Messrs Ashwin Solanki &
Associates, Cost Accountants has been received to
the effect that their appointment as Cost Auditor of
the Company, if made, would be in accordance with
the limits specified under Section 141 of the Act and
Rules framed thereunder and they are not disqualified
to be appointed as Cost Auditor.
39. Listing of the equity shares of the Company:
Your Company received listing and trading approval
for 4,23,81,675 Equity Shares of INR 2 each from the
BSE Limited (“BSE”) and the National Stock Exchange
of India Limited (“NSE”) on March 25, 2020. The
equity shares of your Company commenced trading
on BSE and NSE from trading hours on March 30,
2020. The Stock Code of Equity Shares of your
company are NSE Symbol: POWERINDIA, BSE Scrip
code: 543187 (POWERINDIA) and ISIN: INE07Y701011
40. Shifting of registered office of the Company:
The registered office of your Company has been
shifted from 21st Floor, World Trade Center Brigade
Gateway, No. 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram,
Bengaluru - 560055 to 8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560092 w.e.f.
March 16, 2020.
41. Management Discussion and Analysis Report
(MDAR)
The Management Discussion and Analysis Report
(MDAR) is annexed as Annexure A to this report.
42. Postal ballot
The Company proposes to conduct postal ballot
exercise through remote e-voting pursuant to

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Section 110 and other applicable provisions, if any,
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”), read with
Rule 22 and other applicable rules of the Companies
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
(“Rules”) (including any statutory modifications,
amendments or re-enactment thereof for the time
being in force) and General Circular No. 14/2020 dated
April 8, 2020, read with General Circular No. 17/2020
dated April 13, 2020, issued by Ministry of Corporate
Affairs, Government of India (“MCA Circulars”) and
pursuant to other applicable laws and regulations
MCA circulars .
43. Acknowledgements:
The Board of Directors take this opportunity to
thank the Company’s parent company, customers,
members, suppliers, bankers, associates, Central and
State Governments and employees at all levels for
their support and co-operation extended to the
Company during the period under review.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
				
Place: Bengaluru			
Date: April 30, 2020		

Frank Duggan
Chairman
DIN: 02937233

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

47

—
Annexure - A to Directors’ Report
Management discussion and analysis
Industry structure and
developments
Economic and market overview
2019 began on a hopeful note. With the new central
government being elected on an even greater majority than
in 2014, expectations were high of a policy that would
boost the country’s growth momentum. The triple balance
sheet problem involving banks, corporates and non-bank
financial intermediaries, triggered by the NBFC defaults in
2018, kept credit conditions tight.
Despite several rounds of monetary policy easing by the
Reserve Bank of India and stimulus measures from the
Government, private investment and core sector output
failed to pick up. With investment low, job creation and jobsdriven consumption recovery remained missing. By
September, stagnation in the manufacturing sector
worsened due to weak spending and outlay. All three
major industrial sectors - mining, manufacturing and
electricity shrank. Industrial output too remained weakerthan-expected.
An additional headwind for India was weaker global
demand. The Indian Rupee remained battered due to
persistent weakness in the domestic economy, financial
sector woes, volatility in oil prices, as well as trade tensions
between the U.S. and China, pushing investors to seek
shelter in U.S. assets. Thus, the currency could do little for
exports. Global trade turbulence and various protectionist
measures taken by countries took a toll on performance.
The year, however, closed with things to look forward to.
December’s manufacturing PMI rose to 52.7 from 51.2 in
November, showing an uptick in consumer demand and
exports1. The U.S. and China also agreed on a partial trade
deal, while domestically the Government provided a thrust
for infrastructure projects and measures to usher credit
liquidity in the system.

The Union Budget 2019-20 opened doors to several
potential opportunities for the power sector. It announced
the allocation of INR 100 lakh crore for infrastructure over
the next five years3. It also showed commitment to creating
a blueprint for gas and water grids as well as regional
airports. To facilitate its 24/7 power for all by 2022, it also
promised the roll out of a new tariff policy for the power
sector alongside schemes to reduce losses of distribution
companies (discoms), albeit with more stringent caveats.
For attracting investment for manufacturing and to ensure
clean energy over time, it also allocated INR 10,000 crore for
the faster adoption of electric vehicles. The decision to
float a new public sector discom, with pan-India presence,
was also realized.
Yet, for most of 2019 the power sector remained under
pressure due to power purchase agreement re-negotiations,
demand reduction and mounting dues from discoms to the
generating companies. Electricity consumption growth
slowed causing electricity generation, including from
renewables, to stay in second gear. Conventional generation
was down 19 percent in October while overall generation fell
1 percent year-on-year in the fourth quarter. The cumulative
year-to-date production (April-December) from on-grid
coal-fired power generation was also down 25 billion units
in absolute terms4 . The rising cost of coal and rail
transportation further dampened investor interest in the
thermal sector, having them to continue to pivot toward
renewable energy – the lowest cost source of new power
generation. State-center policy issues such as the perplexity
of implementing ‘Make-in-India’ also led to the cancellation
of more than 4.5 GW of tenders and the under subscription
of another 6 GW of auctions due to scarce investor interest4 .
With such a backdrop, ABB Power Grids retained its focus
on solid fundamentals to build on existing opportunities
and make headway in carefully chosen high-growth
segments such as grid automation and rail. Many of these
will drive business growth in the years ahead. Also central
to our vision are the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals, notably Goal 7 for affordable and clean
energy.

Power sector overview
Over the past decade, energy and emission intensities as
part of the country’s gross domestic product have
decreased by more than 20 percent 2 . By December 2019, the
country had deployed a total of 84 gigawatt (GW) of gridconnected renewable electricity capacity, while total
generating capacity reached 366 GW.

1

https://in.reuters.com/article/india-economy-pmi/indias-decemberfac tor y-ac tiv it y- picks- up -to -seven - month - high - but- businessoptimism-weakens-idINKBN1Z106T.

2

https://www.iea.org/reports/india-2020.

3

https://www.firstpost.com/business/infra-budget-2019-rs-100-lakhcrore-allotted-for-infrastructure-in-next-5-years-projects-to-bridgeurban-rural-divide-highlighted-6940701.html.

4

Central Electricity Authority

48

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Over the coming decade, technology developments and
economic
advantages
strongly
intertwine
with
Government’s ambition to put India in a position to
transform its electricity sector. The push on adoption of
advanced digital technologies such as big data and artificial
intelligence to curb emissions and improve efficiency,
including the digital solutions pioneered by our Company,
is projected to continue.
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited has built a
compelling portfolio of products and solutions that enable
increased use of clean energy sources across the focus
sectors of utilities, industries, transportation and
infrastructure to drive business growth and will continue to
focus on innovation to bring value to our stakeholders. We
are confident that we have the expertise and footprint to
build on the momentum and power ahead.

Business overview
In 2019, Power Grids demerged from ABB India Limited
and became a standalone legal entity - ABB Power
Products and Systems India Limited. We began our
march to a new future backed by the legacy accorded
to us by our former patron. With a history of over
130 years, ABB has a proven track record with worldwide
installed base, lifecycle support services and domain
expertise. It is known for its commitment to continuous
innovation and development of power technologies.
Hence, although young, we are backed with a significant
sectoral experience.
The management of ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited has historically been associated with the
Power Girds business in various roles and brings on
board extensive business experience. Equipped with a
thorough understanding of industry trends, demands
and market changes, we are confident of our ability to
adapt and diversify our operating capabilities and take
advantage of market opportunities. We are poised to
innovate and create value in the power technologies space
and be the partner-of-choice for enabling a stronger,
smarter and greener grid.
As of date, we have five manufacturing locations
spread across Gujarat and Karnataka, a well-entrenched
network of 17 sales offices and established customer
relationships. We operate across four business lines,
namely, (i) grid automation, (ii) grid integration, (iii) highvoltage products and (iv) transformers, and provide
product, system, software and service solutions across
the entire power value chain. Our offerings are designed
to meet the growing demand for electricity with minimum
environmental impact. We support utility, industry and
transport and infrastructure customers to plan, build,
operate and maintain their power infrastructure.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Segment and product-wise reporting
We are engaged in the business relating to products,
projects and services for electricity transmission and
related activities. Accordingly, the Company’s activities
and business is reviewed regularly by the chief operating
decision maker from an overall business perspective,
rather than reviewing its products/services as individual
standalone components. Thus, we have only one operating
segment, and have no reportable segment in accordance
with Ind AS- 108 ‘Operating Segments’. ABB Asea Brown
Boveri Limited hold 10 percent or more shares in the
Company. The details of transactions with promoter/
promoter group holding 10 percent or more shares have
been disclosed in the accompanying financial statements.

Our strategy
We aim to solidify our presence in the power sector and
have been putting immense effort in strengthening its
operations. In accordance with our global strategy, we
have prioritized eight high-growth segments, namely,
grid automation, FACTS, rail, HVDC, data centers,
software, EV infrastructure and microgrids to drive future
growth. We are well-positioned against our competitors
to take advantage and have a leading position in these
attractive markets.
Our strategy is built upon three strategic pillars.
First, to become a growth engine through developing a
world-class front-end team and a customer-centric
mindset. Second, to sharpen our winning portfolio and
business models by competitiveness and maximized
customer value. And third, to drive for world-class
execution by ensuring industry-leading quality and
operational performance. These pillars are anchored to a
foundation of people and innovation. While hiring top
talent and building people capabilities for large projects
is a challenge across the power industry, we are sure of our
strengths and are empowered by our agile structure and
expected overall market growth.
Our continued focus on R&D positions us well to deliver
value to our customers even in times of transformation.
We are constantly working on short-term evolutionary
innovations to existing products and services, as well as
long-term innovations crucial for maintaining and
strengthening our position as a leader in innovation and
for supporting future growth. To ensure we are flexible
and result-driven, our global research centers and business
units are integrated with leading universities in India and
abroad, and with our other external partners, in a
networked environment.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Operational overview
At a time when disruptive technological changes and
various policy initiatives are changing the way customers
do business, we have continued to prepare ourself and
create value for our stakeholders through best-in-class
manufacturing facilities and global technology portfolio.
Further, our internal transformational initiatives have
helped us build systematic cadence, agility and
disciplined performance to transform growth, portfolio
and execution. Our foundation of innovation and people
strategy have helped us stay on track.
At the close of the year, we set up our new headquarters
in Bengaluru and launched ourselves as a standalone
legal entity in the power domain. We also established a
world-class digital experience center, PowerDEC, which
demonstrates the next level of enterprise performance for
enhanced grid stability, improved asset performance and
efficient operational management.
As part of our investment in strategic research and
development programs, we inaugurated a High-Voltage
Products Innovation Center in Vadodara, accredited with
the National Accreditation Board for Testing and
Calibration (NABL). The center will reduce the Company’s
dependence on external bodies and support the
technology and R&D teams in testing their inventions in
real-time, enabling faster go-to-market.
At our Peenya facility we added one shop floor for utility
communication. To prepare ourselves to smartly handle
future demand from urbanization, we also set up a factory
for Electric Multiple Unit (EMU) traction transformer at
Savli and expanded the capacity of our power transformers
facility in Maneja.
We are committed to maintaining state-of-the-art
test facilities and NABL-accredited high voltage,
mechanical endurance labs for testing our manufactured
products to ensure their long-lasting site performance.
We are equipped with full-time training facilities
encompassing our complete range of products, systems
and communication and have a rigorous year-long training
calendar. Our factories are in the process of implementing
the LEAN Lighthouse program and continue to work on
LEAN principles to reduce waste and increase recycling.
At the close of 2019, ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited was in the process of being certified under
ISO 14001 Environment Management Systems and ISO
45001 Safety Management System. We aim to be
recognized for our customer focus and high standards in
the industry. We plan on achieving it by enhancing the
quality of our technology applications and training our
channel partners on the highest operational benchmarks.
We have rolled out company-wide LEAN and Six Sigma
(L6S) initiatives and, have until date trained 327 Yellow
Belts, 6 Green Belts and 1 Black Belt.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

49

ISO 9001 – 2015 certified, we have established quality
management system with a clear policy objective and
focus on customers, factory processes and suppliers.
Regular TLC audits by the product technology lead
centers for control and improvement in process and
product manufacturing across the value chain are
carried out.
We have set-up a vendor quality assurance function,
followed by regular audits to monitor and improve supplier
performance on quality, delivery and sustainability.
Statistical process control across suppliers and inspection
using modern measuring instruments, such as helium leak
testing M/c, 3D CMM are in place for improving incoming
component quality. We also have in-process quality
control tests and skill matrix checks for the flawless
production of products.
With close to 100 dedicated engineers, our technology
centers focus on continuous product innovation,
optimization and improvement using various state-ofthe-art technical software. The availability of world-class
PowerTEC training center to give customers hands-on
training in handling the Company’s products also lead to
a further improvement in product lifecycle.

Performance during the
reporting period
Keeping pace with the evolving markets, we had many
firsts in the period under review. We booked our first
cybersecurity order from Power Grid Corporation of India
Limited (PGCIL), Roorkee. City and state utilities continued
their digital transition and we booked orders for remote
terminal units for smart cities and protection, control and
measurement units of Relion for digital substations. Pilots
were initiated for digitalizing transformers using our
CoreTec and Core Sense offering with a leading renewable
player. To ensure reliable rural electrification under the
Government’s rural electrification program for Deendayal
Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana and Integrated Power
Development Scheme, we delivered COMBIFLEX solutions
through our partners. We received multiple orders toward
urban mobility including for the supply of over 80 trackside
transformers for railway electrification and Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) solutions and
dry-type distribution transformers for various metro
projects across India.
With space crunch in urban environments increasingly
becoming an issue, we also received orders for a
132 kilovolt (kV) Gas Insulated Switchgear (GIS) substation
from a state utility, a 400 kV GIS and transformers order
for a power plant in eastern India, a 400 kV GIS for a thermal
power plant in a southern state, and a 420 kV GIS for
Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited TANGEDCO Udangudi
STPP project, and many others.

50

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Major orders successfully commissioned/supplied during
the period under review include:
• Phasor measurement units to industrial and renewable
sectors for substation-wide area measurement projects.
• One of India’s first next-generation fiber-optic
transmission equipment, based on multi-protocol label
switching, for 1,400-kilometer (km) oil and gas
pipelines for Pipeline Infrastructure Limited.
• Network Manager SCADA upgrade order for Bangalore
Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL).
• Automation, control and SCADA order for Pune Metro.
• Automation and control order for Eastern Dedicated
Freight Corridor.
Growth in industries such as steel, cement and automobiles,
however, continued to weaken. Solar capacity addition in
the country didn’t happen as expected and fewer in the
domain were awarded in 2019 than the year before. Our
e-balance of system projects were further hampered by
the ambiguity in Goods and Services Tax on solar.
Our track record of excellence and on-time delivery
ensured we remained the preferred suppliers for our
existing customers. To name a few, we received repeat
orders from PGCIL for software-as-a-service and power
line carrier communication, and from National Thermal
Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) for protection and
integrated energy management solution.
Our businesses booked milestone orders including
traction transformers, customized for WAP-7-type electric
locomotive for powering Indian Railways under their
‘Mission Electrification’; HVDC upgrade for PGCIL’s Rihand
Dadri HVDC link; traction transformers from Diesel
Locomotive Works, Varanasi, and Chittaranjan Locomotive
Works. We also received orders for 765 kV transformers
and reactors for PGCIL substations as well as for a 400/220/
132 kV GIS substation from an infrastructure customer.
Our orders for the period under review - April to December
2019 - totaled INR 2,642 crore, and revenue was INR 3,231
crore. Profit-before-tax was INR 220.6 crore and profitafter-tax INR 165 crores.

Services
Value-based engagement with customers ensured that
we continued the double-digit growth momentum in
service orders. We had multiple orders encompassing
transmission, generation, process industry and metros areas that hold major growth potential. We received
several third-party upgrade and retrofitting orders and
collaborated and co-created digital solutions with
customers to help them drive efficiency and reliability,
while improving safety. To that effect, we received a large
service order from PGCIL for Rihand-Dadri HVDC system
upgrade, recovery and restoration of TCSC-II at Raipur
Substation, lifecycle service orders for grid automation

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

from Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, Vedanta, NTPCL and
PGCIL, a retrofit order from Druk Green Power Corporation
Limited, Bhutan, for circuit breakers and disconnectors,
a replacement project order for 76 units of 245 kV
disconnectors from Gujarat State Electricity Corporation
Limited (GSECL), an annual maintenance contract for
220/33 kV substation from BPCL Kochi, and power system
study orders from various customers.
We remained a trusted partner for training top talent
and had such requests from PGCIL, Gujarat Energy
Transmission Corporation Limited and Maharashtra State
Electricity Transmission Company Limited. We also had
a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Central
Board of Irrigation and Power under which we conducted
workshops for more than 200 customers from over
20 utilities. We devoted efforts toward developing future
talent for our high-growth segments and ran more than
60 separate training programs for over thousand people,
recording about 3,500 man-days. We conducted a one-day
finishing school on e-vehicles and digital substations for
more than a hundred undergraduate students.
During the period under review, key customers including
energy and steel majors, recognized ABB Power Products
and Systems India Limited for its service commitment.
Customers such Tata Steel, GSECL and North Eastern
Electric Power Corporation Limited extended their service
engagement.

Exports
Our consistent focus on performance and assurance
of on-time delivery, ability to optimize without any
compromise on quality and world-class facilities, helped
retain the drive in our export orders in 2019. Despite global
trade rigidities, they contributed in double-digits to
our total orders. Opportunities arose from South Africa,
Indonesia, Vietnam, Sweden, Chile, Uruguay, the U.S., and
Australia. These countries made up three-fifth of our total
exports in 2019.
Among many others, we had:
• Our single-largest order booked for transformers from
a customer in Africa for 7 x 150 mega volt amp (MVA)
400 kV, 1 Ph, auto transformers and 2 x 120 MVA 245 kV
power transformers for a hydro power project.
• Our first direct order from a Latin American utility for
30 of our 170 kV circuit breakers.
• Breakthrough order for power transformers from a
Chilean utility.
• Orders for power transformers from UTE, Uruguay.
• Order for dry transformer for a data center in
South Africa.
• Breakthrough order for Network Manager - SCADA for
an airport in Middle East.
• Protection and control equipment order from global
feeder factory for customers such as Ontario Power
Generation (the U.S./Canada) and Transgrid (Australia).

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

• Largest order received for the supply of 72.5 kV to
245 kV circuit breakers to customer in Chile, and first
breakthrough order for 245 kV circuit breakers in the
same market.
• Entry in Angola with our circuit breakers, current
voltage transformer and power transformers.
• Supply of over 4,000 COMBIFLEX relays across the world.
• A five-year frame agreement for supplying 72.5 kV
EDI circuit breakers in Denmark.
• The first order for the 245 kV vertical break disconnector
from the U.S.
• Largest quantity of 72.5 kV Poles & Power Packs
received from Spain - 220 units.
• Largest order-booking from Indonesia with maximum
penetration through local footprint for circuit breaker,
disconnectors and instrument transformer.

Operational excellence
We are deeply devoted to expanding the Indian power
market. We have been investing in expanding our
manufacturing base in the country for over six decades
and today our world-class facilities are the single point
source for Power Grids’ global supply of several products.
Growth is difficult in isolation. So we continue to invest
across the entire value chain - from customers to suppliers,
from employees to future talent. With local manufacturing,
engineering and delivery of almost the entire global
portfolio of products and solutions, India is a microcosm
of the global Power Grids business. It also supports global
R&D, engineering and business services.
On a transformative journey, ABB Power Products and
Systems India Limited is adopting strategies for profitable
growth,
relentless
execution
and
business-led
collaboration. To support customers in a world of
unprecedented technological change and digitalization,
it aims to focus, simplify and shape the business to
solidify its market position. As the energy landscape
evolves, we are actively evaluating how best to cater to the
changing needs, testing everything from assembly, partial
manufacturing to running pilots or forming partnerships
to leveraging the expertise of specialists.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

51

workstream to enhance our capability to deliver products,
systems, software and services through superior and
optimized internal processes. To address the changing
needs of the Indian market, we have simplified and
primed our sales organization to penetrate the market
further for a larger share, while nurturing talent to remain
current and relevant to customer needs.
Continuous competence growth being a crucial element in
the success of our sales force, the team has put in over
1,400 hours of training on pertinent subjects ranging
from technical and commercial expertise to behavioral
and change management. Dashboards and tools for
analysis of market and opportunity pipeline have been
developed to support sales force’s daily operations and
improve decision-making processes.
Our multi-functional, cross-business line teams came
together in collaborated sales efforts with well-governed
processes to secure deals with clear value proposition
to our customers. These specialized teams, with
their strategic approach, have helped us win orders
of GIS substations, electrical balance of plant for
renewable projects, and others, in a highly competitive
environment.
With our agenda to grow our business profitably and
sustainably, we are focused on increasing our market and
competitiveness by analyzing white spaces in our key
segments. Through the year, we have taken extensive
actions to leverage our installed base, evaluate local
market needs for potential new product development
and customizations and engage early on with
stakeholders for prioritized market opportunities to
maximize our win probabilities. Through these actions,
we identified an additional market potential of
approximately INR 1,582.84 crores* in segments such
as transmission, distribution, rail & urban transport,
renewables, industries, data centers, and more.

Research and Development (R&D)

We have made significant improvements through our
internal transformation program, where we made
change and growth our core mantra to provide value for
customers. We are well-positioned for long-term success.
We have developed eco-efficient GIS and circuit breakers
and in the e-mobility space, started a pilot for TOSA flashcharging solution with Ashok Leyland to test the feasibility
of our product in the Indian market.

We believe that the development of new products,
features and solutions and their localization secures as
well as creates additional revenues with increased number
of customer engagements and installed bases. R&D in
application of alternative material, design optimization,
engineering tools, manufacturing technologies, quality
improvement techniques/tools and value engineering
have helped us safeguard and improve profitability. As
part of our industry and social innovation engagement, we
have been participating in various R&D related activities
in association with industry bodies, professional technical
groups, forums and policy makers, and have received
awards and recognitions in terms of application of
innovation, technical publications and presentations. Our

Despite difficult market conditions, we have been able to
strengthen our world-class front-end transformation

*

Initiatives

Based on 2020 MUSD BUDG RATE: 1 USD = 68.819 INR

52

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

R&D activities are carried out in the global R&D and
technology centers as well as in the local businesses. We
believe that this leverages our presence and competencies
in India to develop new technologies and adapting existing
ones for Indian and export market and business.

management and talent strategy, we focus on attracting,
assessing and developing our human capital for today and
for the future. We pay immense attention to inculcating
a learning environment within teams and providing
opportunities for global mobility, so as to manage talent
in key function areas.

Talent

Our Company’s competency model – value pairs – has
been aligned with the business strategy. The same
language is spoken throughout employee’s performance,
learning and development cycles. To ensure continuous
engagement of employees, we have launched several
retention strategies including rewards and recognition
programs to create a nurturing and performance-oriented
work place and shape employee behaviors in line with
organizational values.

Our investment in training and upskilling employees
continues to set us apart in the market. Our success rests
on getting and retaining the right talent. Thus, we have in
place various management training programs tailored for
different management segments. These programs have
been instrumental in penetrating and expanding the
market presence and in introducing key technologies.
As of date, our employee base stands at 2,200. As we
continue to grow, we will invest in talent in the segments
that are vital for our business growth.

Collaboration
We are in regular interaction with Government utilities
and policy bodies, industrial forums such as IEEMA, CII,
ISGF and technological forums like CIGRE to introduce
products and solutions and to shape policy towards a
stronger, smarter and greener grid. We have entered into
an MoU with a leading academic institute to set-up an
operational smart electricity distribution network and
management system in its campus, aimed at serving as
a pilot project for the Smart Cities Mission of the
Government of India. We also had an MoU with the
Central Board of Irrigation and Power under which we
conducted workshops for more than 200 customers from
over 20 utilities.

Human resources
We believe that people are the key pillar of our Company’s
success in the market. We continue to attract the best of
talent thanks to our inclusive culture and ability to leverage
new and existing opportunities for their career growth.
Our people strategy is aligned with our overall vision to be
the pioneer in shaping the future of sustainable energy
and we are committed to nurturing a cordial and diversified
work environment in a growing market and in maximizing
the potential of our workforce.
As of December 31, 2019, our employee base stood at
2,200. To ensure we continue to attract top talent, we have
launched multiple employer branding initiatives and
consistently created avenues for learning. We are invested
in the growth of our employees and are devoted to
helping them adapt and perform better in a fast-changing
market environment. With our enhanced performance

We believe in creating a work culture that cares for
employee well-being. Health and safety are our numberone priority and throughout the period under review, we
have striven to ensure a safe working environment in all
our premises, undertaking several wellness initiatives. We
also paid attention to the governance of various processes
and initiatives across the organization and ensured
industrial relations remained cordial and harmonious
across all manufacturing locations.

Finance
Multiple interest rate cuts by the Reserve Bank of India
did little to boost liquidity in the market. Credit
conditions remained tight. Initiatives like UDAY 1.0
fell short of bringing fresh investments in the power
sector. In this environment, our Company continued its
credible performance through relentless execution and
business-led collaboration. We generated revenue of
INR 3,231 crores while our net profit was more than
INR 165 crores.
Our current ratio stood at 1.07 and interest coverage ratio
at 10.91, showing strength in our balance sheet and our
ability to maximize capital. Our debtor turnover ratio was
2.02, indicating our robust collection processes. However,
we are also discussing potential repayment mechanisms
to clear historical overdues.
Inventory turnover stood at 6.71 percent. Our operating
EBITA was 9.0 percent, while net profit margin stood at 5.1
percent.
In 2019, the interest cost borne by us was INR 26.4 crore.
As on December 31, we had a net cash balance of
INR 188 crore. In terms of foreign currency exposure – for
imports and exports – we continued to conservatively
hedge at the point of commitment to protect the contract
margins.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Key financial ratios
Debtors Turnover

2.0

Inventory Turnover

6.7

Interest Coverage Ratio

10.9

Current Ratio

1.1

Debt Equity Ratio

NA*

Operating Profit Margin (%)

10.4

Operating EBITA (%)

9.0

Net Profit Margin (%)
Details of any change in return on net worth as compared
to immediate previous financial year along with a detailed
explanation thereof

5.1

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

53

Our aim is to minimize adverse impacts, leverage market
opportunities effectively and efficiently, and enhance our
business competitiveness.

Internal control systems
and their adequacy

NA**

*Not applicable as we have short-term borrowing only in books
**Not applicable since the Company was incorporated on February 19,
2019, previous year figures are not applicable.
Note: This being the first financial year of the Company, comparision
with previous year ratios are not applicable.

ABB Power Grids has robust internal financial control
systems that are designed to ensure compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations, facilitate optimum
utilization of resources, protect company assets and
stakeholders’ interests. We are continuously working on
making these systems more efficient and reliable to
ensure completeness of accounting records and timely
preparation of financial statements and management
information.

Disclosure of accounting treatment: The Company
followed IND-AS and has detailed its accounting policy in
note 2 of the financial statements.

Risk management, risks
and concerns
Risk is inherent in business. ABB Power Grids is wellsupported by robust risk management and governance
mechanisms.
We have a risk management charter and policy,
which provides an overarching framework for risk
management (RM).
The key elements of our Company’s framework have
been captured in the RM policy that details the
process for identifying, escalating, prioritizing, mitigating
and monitoring key risk events and action plans. The
assessment of risks covers areas of strategy, technology,
finance, operations and systems, legal & regulatory and
human resources risks. There are appropriate assurance
and monitoring mechanisms in place to monitor the
effectiveness of our RM framework, including the
mitigation plans identified by management for key
risks. We undertake risk management exercises to
identify and expand our knowledge of potential risks in a
changing market and handle them.
Our existing framework provides for risk reviews at
various levels based on the organizational structure matrix.
Periodic assessment of risks, potential impact relating to
business growth, profitability, talent engagement, and
market position are conducted. Response to key operational
risks, based on inputs received from the internal and
external assessment, internal and performance review
among others are done on a regular basis.

We have a holistic Internal Control (IC) framework
comprising Country Management Committee, Group
Directives and Instructions, Local Management
Instructions, Process and Entity-Level Controls,
Enterprise Risk Management, Local Direct Management
Testing Programs, and a strong emphasis on integrity and
ethics as part of our work culture. An independent service
provider, having expertise in the field, has performed
current year’s Internal Financial Control effectiveness
testing. We have an efficient Statutory & Legal Compliance
System in place.
We also have a well-functioning whistle-blower policy to
report any misdoing. Our IC framework has been aligned
with one of the most matured IC frameworks – COSO 1992
and transitioned to COSO 2013. The current framework is
also in line with the Internal Finance Control (IFC)
requirement of The Companies Act, 2013.

Outlook
The power grids market is driven by an increasing adoption
of renewable energy, rising demand in emerging countries
with minimum environmental impact, the expansion of
distributed power sources such as electric vehicles and
storage batteries, deregulation of the electric power
sector in countries and regions, and advances in electric
power system reform.
Further, digitalization in power assets, systems and
processes is creating the environment of energy internet
with real-time integrated grid control system and asset
performance management with predictive maintenance
technologies. Our Company is continuously developing
new features, products and solutions based on core power
technologies to support this evolution.

54

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

As per the National Electricity Plan II, 2019, issued by the
Ministry of Power, Government of India (“Electricity Plan”),
installed generation capacity in India will increase from
around 350 GW currently to 484 GW at the end of 20212022. Gas-insulated switchgear, hybrid switchgear, digital
substations and reactive power compensation are the
technologies of choice to ensure smooth and trouble-free
operation of power systems. Growth in demand and
addition of grid-connected solar power are expected to
lead to investments in associated transmission equipment.

viability gap funding for each emerging technology is
under consideration. It is worthwhile to mention that the
ecosystem for such technologies (primarily components)
will initially be imported. Thus import duty and GST on
key components need to be initially pegged at minimal
tax slabs.

Industry growth being largely muted in 2019, we are
looking to play an active role in railway electrification
with 27,000 kilometres yet to be electrified by 2023,
in regional transport ventures such as NCRTC (Delhi –
Meerut) and high-speed rail (Ahmedabad – Mumbai), and
in metro projects that are either under execution or in a
planning. Data centers hold vast untapped potential for us
in India. With the Government expected to roll out a data
center policy soon, we will likely see exponential growth
and areas to pitch our products and services for segment
augmentation and business growth. We are also awaiting
further developments in the e-mobility space which is at a
nascent stage in the country right now. With many cities
coming up with a Bus Rapid Transit System, there is an
opportunity area which can go electric. At the get-go, we
are well-placed to support the segment with our awardwinning innovative flash charging system -TOSA.

For 2020, unexpected turn of events has impacted our
market outlook. While various macro parameters had been
putting a downward pressure on economic growth, the
Coronavirus outbreak has pushed many projects and
orders to the backseat. However, Government spending in
infrastructure and efforts to boost credit liquidity will
provide a mild thrust for industry capex. As normalcy is
restored, renewables and rail will continue to be areas of
robust growth, while the data center and e-mobility
markets will unleash opportunities for new business
models and overall sector growth. More clarity and policy
impetus from the Government will help to speed up
investments. However, we expect prices to remain under
pressure due to competition and the desire of Government
for a lower price discovery in rail and solar projects.

As leaders in HVDC technology, we are currently executing
the Raigarh-Pugalur HVDC project and see opportunities
for upgrades of maturing HVDC stations in the coming
years. We are also seeing investments starting to happen
toward port upgradation i.e., deployment of smart port
infrastructure and shore-to-ship power systems. This is
an encouraging development and we are well-positioned
to take advantage of it with our offerings.
The Government’s Power-for-All scheme to achieve
universal access to electricity by the early 2020s will
be a big demand generator. But in that context,
the Government’s focus should be primarily on
improving access of energy to households at affordable
rates – a theme central to the policy design. There
are multiple policy and fiscal interventions needed;
programs like UDAY need monitoring and proactive
corrections to be effective. A move to pre-paid smart
meters, as outlined in Budget 2020-21, will be a step
toward discoms cutting distribution losses and setting
the stage for separating the carriage and content
operations. Smart meters minimize human intervention in
metering, billing and collection, and help reduce theft by
identifying loss pockets.
Several renewable technologies such as offshore wind,
battery storage, charging infrastructure for electric
vehicles and the like are still to take off in a big way. The
higher technology cost is one of the biggest hurdles for
mass adoption. The Government is considering schemes
to remove those hurdles. Fiscal support in the form of

Opportunities and threats

In all this, we are confident that we have the expertise and
footprint to build on the momentum and power ahead.

Cautionary statement
Certain statements made in the Management Discussion
and Analysis Report relating to the Company’s objectives,
projections, outlook, expectations, estimates and others
may constitute ‘forward looking statements’ within the
meaning of applicable laws and regulations. Actual
results may differ from such expectations whether
expressed or implied. Several factors could make
significant difference to the Company’s Operations.
These include climatic and economic conditions affecting
demand and supply, government regulations, taxation,
and natural calamities over which the Company does not
have any direct control.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

55

—
Annexure - B to Directors’ Report
Form No. MGT-9
[Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration)
Rules, 2014] Extract of Annual Return
As on the financial period ended on 31.12.2019
I.

REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS:

Sl. No.

Particulars

Details

i

CIN

U31904KA2019PLC121597

ii

Registration date

19.02.2019

iii

Name of the Company

ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

iv

Category/Sub-category of the Company

Public Company, Limited by Shares

v

Address of the Registered office and contact details

8th Floor, Brigade Opus 70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road,
Bengaluru-560092
Phone: Tel:+91 80 2204 1800

vi

Whether listed company

Listed w.e.f March 30, 2020

vii

Name, address and contact details of Registrar and Share
Transfer Agents, if any

KFin Technologies Private Limited
Selenium, Tower B
Plot 31-32, Gachibowli
Financial District, Nanakramguda
Serilingampally Mandal
Hyderabad 500 032
Telangana
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com

II.

PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY:

All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the Company
Sl. No.

Name and description of main products/services

NIC Code of the
product/service

% to total turnover
of the Company

1

Manufacture of transformers and electricity distribution
and control apparatus

271

100%

III. PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES:
Sl. No.

Name and address of the Company

CIN/GLN

Holding/Subsidiary/
Associate

% of shares held

Applicable Section

1

ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd
Affolternstrasse 44
P.O. Box 8131 CH-8050, Zurich,
Switzerland

NA

Holding

75.00

2(46)

56

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

I.

SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (Equity share capital breakup as percentage of total equity):

i.

Category-wise share-holding:

Sl.
No.

Category of shareholder

No. of shares held at the beginning
of the year**
Demat

Physical

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

No. of shares held at the end
of the year**

Total % of total
shares

Demat

Physical

Total

% of total
shares

% Change
during the
year

(A)

PROMOTER AND PROMOTER
GROUP

1)

INDIAN

a

Individual/HUF

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

b

Central Government/State
Government(s)

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

c

Bodies Corporate

50,000

NIL

50,000

100.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

-100.00

d

Financial Institutions/Banks

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

e

Others

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

50,000

0.00

50,000

100.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

-100.00

Sub-Total A (1):
2)

FOREIGN

a

Individuals (NRIs/Foreign
Individuals)

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

b

Bodies Corporate

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

3,17,86,256

NIL

3,17,86,256

75.00

75.00

c

Institutions

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

d

Qualified Foreign Investor

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

e

Others

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

Sub-total A(2):

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

3,17,86,256

NIL

3,17,86,256

75.00

75.00

50,000

NIL

50,000

100.00

3,17,86,256

NIL

3,17,86,256

75.00

-25.00

6.82

Total A=A(1)+A(2)
(B)

PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING

1)

INSTITUTIONS

a

Mutual Funds/UTI

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

28,91,102

NIL

28,91,102

6.82

b

Financial Institutions/Banks

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

22,13,101

932

22,14,033

5.22

5.22

c

Central Government/State
Government(s)

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

d

Venture Capital Funds

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

e

Insurance Companies

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

f

Foreign Institutional Investors

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

14,44,373

NIL

14,44,373

3.41

3.41

g

Foreign Venture Capital
Investors

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

h

Qualified Foreign Investor

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

i

Others

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

Sub-total B(1):

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

65,48,576

932

65,49,508

15.45

15.45

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

2,70,528

1,577

2,72,105

0.64

0.64

i) Individuals holding nominal
share capital upto INR 1 lakh

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

24,55,350

3,21,098

27,76,448

6.55

6.55

ii) Individuals holding nominal
share capital in excess of
INR 1 lakh

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

1,22,561

NIL

1,22,561

0.29

0.29

Clearing members

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

4,763

NIL

4,763

0.01

0.01

Foreign Banks

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

643

NIL

643

0.00

0.00

Foreign Nationals

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

141

141

0.00

0.00

IEPF

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

1,07,421

NIL

1,07,421

0.25

0.25

Non-Resident Indians

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

46,866

372

47,238

0.11

0.11

NRI Non-Repatriation

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

72,981

5

72,986

0.17

0.17

Qualified Institutional Buyer

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

6,31,509

NIL

6,31,509

1.49

1.49

2)

NON-INSTITUTIONS

a

Bodies Corporate

b

Individuals

c

d

Others

Trusts

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

10,096

NIL

10,096

0.02

0.02

Qualified Foreign Investor

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

Sub-Total B(2):

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

37,22,718

3,23,193

40,45,911

9.55

9.55

Total B=B(1)+B(2):

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

1,02,71,294

3,24,125

1,05,95,419

25.00

25.00

50,000

NIL

50,000

100.00

4,20,57,550

3,24,125

42,381,675

100.00

100.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

Total (A+B):
(C)

SHARES HELD BY CUSTODIANS,
AGAINST WHICH
Depository Receipts have been
issued

1)

PROMOTER AND PROMOTER
GROUP

2)

PUBLIC
Grand Total (A+B+C):

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

NIL

NIL

NIL

0.00

0.00

50,000

NIL

50,000

100.00

4,20,57,550

3,24,125

4,23,81,675

100.00

100

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ii.

Shareholding of promoters:

Sl.
No.

Shareholder’s name

1

ABB India Limited
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd

57

Shareholding at the beginning of the year** Shareholding at the end of the year**
No of shares

2

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

% of total
% of shares
No of shares
shares of the pledged/
Company
encumbered
to total shares

% change in

shareholding
% of total
% of shares
during the year
shares of the pledged/
Company
encumbered
to total shares

50,000

100%

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

(100%)

NIL

NIL

NIL

3,17,86,256

75%

NIL

75%

iii. Change in promoters’ shareholding:
Sl
No.

Name of the
Shareholder

Shareholding at the
beginning of the year**

Date

No of
shares

% of total
shares of the
Company

Reason

Increase/Decrease in
shareholding
No of shares

% of total
shares
of the
Company

1

ABB India Limited

50,000

100%

#

#

(50,000)

(100%)

2

ABB Asea Brown
Boveri Ltd

NIL

NIL

#

#

3,17,86,256

75%

Cumulative shareholding
during the year**
No of shares % of total
shares of the
Company
NIL

NIL

3,17,86,256

75%

# During the financial period ended December 31, 2019, ABB India Limited incorporated ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
and held entire share capital of 50,000 equity shares (100%) along with its nominees. Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement of
Demerger being approved by National Company Law Tribunal, Bengaluru bench vide its order dated November 27, 2019, pre-scheme
share capital was cancelled and fresh 4,23,81,675 Equity shares were allotted on December 24, 2019 to the Shareholders of ABB India
Limited as on the record date being December 23, 2019. Out of this allotment, 3,17,86,256 (75%) Equity shares of INR 2/- each were
allotted to ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd, Zurich,Switzerland.

iv.

Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (Other than Directors, Promoters and holders of GDRs and ADRs):

Sl No. Name of shareholder

Shareholding at the beginning of the year** #
No of shares

% of total shares
of the company

Cumulative Shareholding during the year** #
No of shares

% of total shares
of the company

1

Life Insurance Corporation of India

NIL

NIL

19,10,110

4.51

2

Reliance Capital Trustee Co Limited

NIL

NIL

12,58,467

2.97

3

SBI Large & Midcap Fund

NIL

NIL

6,98,148

1.65

4

ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company
Limited

NIL

NIL

3,94,255

0.93
0.67

5

Aberdeen Global Indian Equity Limited

NIL

NIL

2,83,787

6

General Insurance Corporation of India

NIL

NIL

2,42,144

0.57

7

HDFC Trustee Company Limited

NIL

NIL

2,36,124

0.56

8

Amundi Funds SBI FM Equity India

NIL

NIL

2,18,324

0.52

9

Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index
Fund

NIL

NIL

1,63,478

0.39

10

Vanguard Total International Stock Index
Fund

NIL

NIL

1,62,034

0.38

TOTAL

NIL

NIL

55,66,871

13.14

# Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement of Demerger being approved by National Company Law Tribunal, Bengaluru bench vide its
order dated November 27, 2019, pre-scheme share capital was cancelled and fresh 4,23,81,675 Equity shares were allotted on December
24, 2019 to the shareholders of ABB India Limited based on the record date being December 23, 2019.

v.

Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel:

Sl No Name of the Director/Key
Managerial Personnel

1

Poovanna Ammatanda

Date

Reason

Shareholding at the
beginning of the year**

Cumulative Shareholding
during the year**

No of
shares

% of total
shares
of the
company

No of
shares

% of total shares
of the company

19.02.2019

NA

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

31.12.2019

Allotment of
shares pursuant
to Scheme of
Demerger

NIL

NIL

1

0.00%

Note: None of other Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company hold equity shares of the Company in financial period 2019
other than the above.
** Shareholding for financial period from February 19, 2019 to December 31, 2019

58

V.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

INDEBTEDNESS:

Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not due for payment:
(Amount in INR crores)
Secured Loans
excluding deposits

Unsecured
Loans

Deposits

Total
Indebtedness

Indebtedness at the beginning of the financial year*

0

0

0

0

i) Principal amount

0

0

0

0

ii) Interest due but not paid

0

0

0

0

iii) Interest accrued but not due

0

0

0

0

Total (i+ii+iii)

0

0

0

0

- Addition

0

347.62

0

347.62

- Reduction

0

0

0

0

Net change

0

347.62

0

347.62

i) Principal amount

0

347.62

0

347.62

ii) Interest due but not paid

0

0

0

0

iii) Interest accrued but not due

0

12.23

0

12.23

Total (i+ii+iii)

0

359.85

0

359.85

Change in indebtedness during the financial year

Indebtedness at the end of the financial year

* February 19, 2019

VI. REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
A.

Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and/or Manager:
(Amount in INR lakhs)

Sl No Particulars of remuneration
1

Name and Designation

2

Gross salary:

Name of MD/WTD/Manager
Mr. Venu Nuguri
(Managing Director)
(2.12.2019 to 31.12.2019)*

19.50

(a) Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the Income-Tax Act, 1961
(b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the Income Tax Act, 1961

-

(c) Profits in lieu of salary u/s 17(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961

-

3

Stock option

-

4

Sweat Equity

-

5

Commission
- as % of profit
- others, specify…

-

6

Others (premium for Group Term Life Insurance, Group Personnel Accident
Insurance, Mediclaim, PF Company contribution and Meal voucher)

2.01

Total (A)

21.51

Ceiling as per the Act

1,106.10

* Remuneration drawn from December 2, 2019 (effective date of appointment as MD) to December 31, 2019
In addition to the Salary/Perquisites mentioned above, the Managing Director is entitled for Management Incentive Program (MIP).

B.

Remuneration to other Directors:
(Amount in INR lakhs)

Sl No Particulars of remuneration
1

Name

2

Fee for attending Board / Committee meetings*

3

Commission

4

Others, please specify
Total B1

Total

Name of Independent Directors
Mr. Mukesh Butani
Ms.Akila Krishnakumar
(24.12.2019 TO 31.12.2019) (24.12.2019 TO 31.12.2019)

MS. Nishi Vasudeva
(24.12.2019 TO 31.12.2019)

0.4

0.4

0.4

1.2

-

-

-

-

0.4

0.4

0.4

1.2

*Sitting fees for the Board meeting and Audit committee meeting held in December 24, 2019, but was paid in FY 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Sl No Particulars of remuneration
1

Name

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

59

Name of Other Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Frank Duggan
(24.12.2019 to 31.12.2019)

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma
(19.2.2019 to 31.12.2019)

Total

Mr. Sridhar
Krishnaswamy Tyagavalli
(19.2.2019 to 24.12.2019)

2

Fee for attending Board/ Committee meetings

-

-

-

-

3

Commission

-

-

-

-

Others, please specify

-

-

-

-

Total B2

-

-

-

-

4

Sl No Particulars of remuneration

Name of Other Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Gururaj Bhujangarao Mr. Achim Michael Braun
(19.2.2019 to 24.12.2019) (22.11.2019 to 16.12.2019)

Total

1

Name

Mr. Ismo Antero Haka
(22.11.2019 to 16.12.2019)

2

Fee for attending Board/ Committee meetings

-

-

-

-

3

Commission

4

Others, please specify

-

-

-

-

Total B3

-

-

-

-

Overall Ceiling as per the Act

-

-

-

2433.42

Total Remuneration paid A+B

-

-

-

22.71

Total B = 1.2

C.

Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel other than MD/Manager/WTD:

Sl No Particulars of remuneration
1

Name and Designation

2

Gross salary:

Key Managerial Personnel

Total

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda
Mr. Ajay Singh
(General Counsel & Company Secretary) (Chief Financial Officer)
(2.12.2019 to 31.12.2019) (2.12.2019 to 31.12.2019)

(a) Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the
Income-tax Act, 1961

5.83

5.05 10.88

(b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the Income Tax Act, 1961

-

-

-

(c) Profits in lieu of salary u/s 17(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961

-

-

-

3

Stock Option

-

-

-

4

Sweat Equity

-

-

-

5

Commission
- as % of profit
- others, specify

-

-

-

6

Others (premium for Group Term Life Insurance, Group Personnel
Accident Insurance, Mediclaim, PF Company contribution and Meal
voucher)

0.55

0.82

1.37

Total (C)

6.38

5.87 12.25

In addition to the Salary/Perquisites mentioned above, the Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel and Company Secretary are
entitled for Management Incentive Program (MIP)

VII. PENALTIES/PUNISHMENT/COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES:
During the period under review, no penalty was levied against the Company, its Directors or any of its Officers under the
Companies Act, 2013, and also there was no punishment or compounding of offences against the Company, its Directors
or any of its Officers.
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 30, 2020

Frank Duggan
Chairman
DIN: 02937233

60

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Annexure - C to Directors’ Report
Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration
The information relating to remuneration of Directors / Key Managerial Personnel as required under Section 197(12) of
the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
Rules, 2014
1.

Ratio of the remuneration of each Executive Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the
Company for the Financial period 2019, the percentage increase in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer (MD),
Chief Financial Officerand Company Secretaryduring the Financial period 2019.

Sl No Name of the Director / Key
Managerial Personnel

Designation

Ratio of Remunerationof
each Directorto median
remuneration of employees

Percentage increase in
Remuneration

1

Mr. Venu Nuguri*

Managing Director

#

#

2

Mr. Ajay Singh*

Chief Financial Officer

#

#

3

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda*

General Counsel &Company
Secretary

#

#

Notes:
Independent Directors of the Company are entitled for sitting fees and commission as per the Statutory Provisions
and within the limits approved by the Share holders. As a Policy, the Non-Executive-Non-Independent Directors are
neither paid sitting fee nor paid any commission. The details of remuneration of Non-executive Directors are
provided in the Corporate Governance Report. The ratio of remuneration and percentage increase for Non-executive
Directors Remuneration is therefore not considered for the above purpose.
*Appointed w.e.f. December 2, 2019
# Since the remuneration is only for the period December 02, 2019 to December 31, 2019, the ratio of their
remuneration to median remuneration and percentage increase in remuneration is not comparable and hence, not
applicable.
2.

Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees for the financial year: Not applicable since the
appointed date and effective date of the Scheme of Arrangement was April 01, 2019 and December 01, 2019
respectively.

3.

Number of permanent employees on rolls of the Company as on December 31, 2019: 2,200 employees.

4.

Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than managerial personnel in the
last financial period and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and
justification thereof and to point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial
remuneration: Not applicable since the appointed date and effective date of the Scheme of Arrangement was
April 01, 2019 and December 01, 2019 respectively.

5.

Affirmation that the remuneration is as per remuneration policy of the Company: Yes

		
		

For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

		
Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 30, 2020

Frank Duggan
Chairman
DIN: 02937233

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

61

—
Annexure - D to Directors’ Report
Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings
and outgo.
Pursuant to provisions of Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts)
Rules, 2014.
A.

Conservation of energy
36 percent of green power used in Company’s Operations

1.

Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:
•
Replaced conventional light fixtures with energy efficient LED light fixtures across Mysuru, Maneja, Halol and
Savli locations.
•
Installed new energy efficient VFD to control air compressor and blower of air ambiator systems across Maneja
and Savli
•
Maintaining power factor throughout the year at 0.99 by replacing faulty capacitors
•
Replacement of normal motors with energy efficient motors at Mysuru
•
An overall conservation of:
- Maneja
– 2.5 percent
- Halol
– 7 percent
- Savli
– 3.95 percent
- Mysore
– 1 percent

2.

The steps taken by the company for utilising alternate sources of energy:
Solar energy being generated in the Maneja factory campus with storage and Microgrid.

3.

The Capital Investment on energy conservation equipment’s:
Three effluent treatment plants dismantled and replaced with a centralised effluent treatment and installation of
new RO plant to reduce usage of fresh water to the extent of 100 kiloliter per day and achieving energy conservation

B.

Technology absorption

1.

The efforts made towards technology absorption:
•
Transformer with a new vector group - Dzn0yn1
•
Ester filled 400 kV and 110 kV transformers - highest ratings in Indian market
•
105MVA generator transformers with H2S (Hydrogen Sulphide) for export
•
765 kV generator and tie transformers (SC tested at KEMA) and shunt reactors
•
Traction transformer with double traction supply output (2 x 27 kV) for African rail network
•
800 kV and 400 kV HVDC converter transformers
•
245 kV vertical break disconnector for 63 kA, 4000A
•
Single-phase dynamic power factor compensation device (STATCON) for 800 kVAR
•
420 kV current transformer
•
RTNA14, integrated CAT III test system for online testing of IED for South Asian market
•
110 kV underground substation for south Asian market
•
Modular substation specially for containerized GIS solutions for utilities, renewables and petrochemicals
•
Earthing solution for a very high resistivity terrain (2600 ohm-m) in Bhutan Damji Substation, BPCL using
combination of software & various chemicals
•
Advanced service solution for substations (RelCARE)
•
Static Frequency Converters for railway applications
•
Simulation tools for e-mobility feasibility studies and grid stability
•
Digital Asset Management Program (DAMP) for asset health benchmarking
•
Implementation of digital asset management solution at 765 kV for first time in India (for CB) to take care of
multiple assets
•
Compact and safe solution for 220 kV oil-filled cable box for EHV power transformers
•
Dry-type cast resin transformers for railway trackside and metro rails

62

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Improvement in operating mechanism of the circuit breakers
Trip circuit supervision relay type TSR-B with modified contact configuration and visual indication
Improvement in lightning protection tools
Adoption of digitalization tools at ABB PowerTEC to enhance the digital experience for customer (collecting
feedbacks, online analytics started for feedback)
EHV class transformers for NTPC Tapovan – 400 kV and PGCIL Koteshwar – 800 kV that reached safely through
Hilly terrain to Uttarakhand project sites
Converter duty transformer for Metro rails
Global protective relay product line Combiflex/Combitest
New design and development of 145 kV vertical break disconnector
Test switch maintenance release with improvements in contact boxes to handle various application
configurations
Modification of RXKL time relay hardware and software to handle “end of life” of the main controller
Layout engineering of Offshore wind substations
Virtual reality-based trainings for system owners and operators
Asset health indexing tool for transmission lines

2.

The benefits derived as a result of technology absorption:
•
Securing and enhancing market offerings
•
Improved market penetration of various products
•
Improving product margins
•
Reducing quality issues and cost of poor quality
•
Fulfilling customer and market special requirements
•
Cost effective engineering and solutions to customers
•
Standardized BaSo solution (Solar Balance of Plants)
•
Digital solutions in the HV substations including reactor and CB’s and predicting the equipment health
•
Avoiding outages for customer operations by developing solutions for high frequency earthing
•
Formation of the global tool RELCARE with which customer maintenance practices will be further optimized.

3.

Technologies imported during the last three years*
April - December 2019
•
New technology (245 kV GIS) absorbed and commercial production started
•
DC capacitor Technology Transfer completed and fully implemented in ongoing HVDC project
•
Market release for RTNA14 held in 2019 and production would start in 2020
•
Various Digital and Cybersecurity solutions for core power and automation assets and operations

All technologies are fully absorbed.
4.

C.

The expenditure incurred on Research and Development:
Sl No Information Type

Apr-Dec 2019

1

The R&D, product development and innovation activities are part of
global R&D, funded and owned by ABB global. Hence not reported here.

Expenditure on R&D and above product development/
innovation

Foreign exchange earnings and outgo

Total foreign exchange used and earned
							 (Amount in INR crores)
			
2019
2018*
Foreign Exchange earned
531
NA
Foreign exchange used
643
NA
*Since the Company was incorporated on February 19, 2019, previous years figures are not applicable
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
					 			
Frank Duggan
Place: Bengaluru
Chairman
Date: April 30, 2020
DIN: 02937233

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

63

—
Annexure - E to Directors’ Report
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES (CSR) ACTIVITIES
1.

Brief outline of the Company’s CSR policy including over view of projects or programs proposed to be undertaken
and a reference to the web-link to the CSR policy and projects orprograms.
Company’s CSR policy
The Company views corporate social responsibility as a channel to further its cause of “bringing power to all by
shaping the future of sustainable energy”. The company is committed to sustainable and inclusive development of
the community’s social capital through active engagement.
Following are key areas for Company’s CSR intervention:
Promote gender equality and empowering of women in engineering workforce
To promote gender equality by ensuring initiatives to empower/advancement of women and in the engineering
workforce, thereby increasing diversity and inclusion.
Endorse education, employability & healthcare
To create necessary infrastructure and resources to enable promotion of primary education among children and
impart vocational skills training to the youth, promoting health care including preventive health care
Social impact projects
To collaborate with communities to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access to electricity in the
country, especially in rural areas for its development.
Support national disaster management and other government initiatives
To actively support national disaster management including relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities and
support in other initiatives for promoting including preventive measures for health care systems, hygiene and
sanitation.
Aid in sustainable development goals
To promote an ecosystem for sustainable development goals by encouraging usage of indigenous innovative and
sustainable solutions by aiding, development, promoting, facilitating and undertaking testing of new frontiers of
science, technology, engineering, and environment in partnership with likeminded institutions, incubators and
sponsors.
•

The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policyis available at the following link: https://new.abb.com/
grid/appsil/investors-section

The Company was incorporated on February 19, 2019. A Scheme Of Arrangement (“Scheme”) was entered into between
(i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”/“Transferor”) (a subsidiary of your Company’s Promoter, ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd)
and (ii) your Company (“Company”/“Transferee”) and their respective shareholders and creditors, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 230 to 232 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, which provided for inter
alia the Demerger of the Power Grids Business of INABB (“Demerged Undertaking”). The National Company Law
Tribunal vide its order dated November 27, 2019 approved the Scheme with Appointed Date and Effective Date being
April 1, 2019 and December 1, 2019 respectively. Financial period ended December 31, 2019 being the first financial
period, the Company was not required to incur expenditure on CSR activity.
2.

Composition of the CSR Committee
Ms. Akila Krishnakumar
Mr. Sanjeev Sharma		
Mr. Venu Nuguri		

–
–
–

Chairperson – Independent Director
Member – Non-Executive Director
Member – Managing Director

64

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

The CSR Committee was constituted on December 24, 2019 and no committee meeting was held during the period
ended December 31, 2019. However, the Company has adopted the revised CSR policy at its meeting of the Board of
Directors held on April 30, 2020.
3.

Average net profit of the Company for the last three financial years

Not Applicable since being the first financial period.
4.

Prescribed CSR expenditure (2 percent of the average net profit of the last three financial years)
Financial period ended 2019 being the first financial year, the Company was not required to spend any amount
towards CSR expenditure

5.

Details of CSR spent during the financial period:

a)

Total amount to be spent for the financial period:
Being the first financial period, the Company was not required to spend any amount under CSR for financial 		
period ended December 31, 2019.

b)

Amount unspent:
Not Applicable since being the first financial period.

c)

Manner in which amount spent during the financial period:

Not Applicable since being the first financial period
Sl No

NA

6.

CSR Project or
Sector in which Project or programs
activity identified the project is
covered

NA

NA

Amount outlay
(budget) project
or programs wise

(1) Local area or other

(1) Direct expenditure
on Project or programs

(2) State and District
where Project or
programs

(2) Overheads

NA

NA

Details of
Amount spent:
Cumulative
Amount spent
on the project or Expenditure Upto Direct or through implementing
agency
reporting period implementing
programs
agency

NA

NA

NA

Reasons for not spending 2 percent of the average net profit of the last three financial years
Not Applicable since being the first financial period

7.

Responsibility statement by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee:
Not Applicable since being the first financial period

		For and on behalf of Board of Directors
		For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Venu Nuguri
Managing Director
(DIN: 07032076)
Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 30, 2020

Akila Krishnakumar
Chairperson – CSR Committee
(DIN: 06629992)

NA

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

65

—
Annexure - F to Directors’ Report
FORM AOC-2
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred
to in sub-section (1) of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third
proviso thereto
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Details of contract entered into with related parties during Financial period 2019
1.

Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis:There were no contracts or arrangements or transactions entered into during the financial period ended December
31, 2019, which were not arm’s length basis.

2.

Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:

a

Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship

b

Nature of contracts/arrangements/transactions

c

Duration of the contracts/arrangements/transactions

d

Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions
including the value, if any.

•

ABB INDIA LIMITED
(Subsidiary of the Company’s holding Company)

Given below:

Related Party Transactions (RPT) between ABB India Limited and ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
(Amount in INR crores)
Nature of RPT

Duration
in Months

Total

IS Services

31

IS License Fees (CHGPL)

Financial Years
2019

2020

2021

2022

79.05

2.36

28.35

31.19

17.15

1

3.64

3.64

-

-

-

Utilities (Power)

7

13.28

1.90

11.38

-

-

Treasury Services

7

0.63

0.09

0.54

-

-

Lease of Own Property - Plant

7

0.51

0.07

0.43

-

-

Lease of Own Property - Office

3

0.46

0.15

0.31

-

-

Guest House Services

3

0.34

0.11

0.22

-

-

Total

-

97.90

8.32

41.24

31.19

17.15

•

Related Party Transactions between ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited and ABB India Limited
(Amount in INR crores)
Nature of RPT

Duration
in Month

Total

7

0.57

Lease of own Property - Plant

Financial Years
2019

2020

2021

2022

0.08

0.49

-

-

e

Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any:

December 9, 2019

f

Amount paid as advances, if any:

Nil

For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 30, 2020

Frank Duggan
Chairman
DIN: 02937233

66

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Annexure - H to Directors’ Report
Report on Corporate Governance
1.

Company’s Philosophy on Code of Governance
The Company is committed to good Corporate Governance. The Company fully realises the rights of its shareholders
to information on the performance of the Company and considers itself a trustee of its shareholders. The Company
is providing detailed information on various issues concerning the Company’s business and financial performance to
its shareholders. The basic philosophy of Corporate Governance in the Company is to achieve business excellence and
dedicate itself for increasing long-term shareholder value, keeping in view the needs and interests of all its stake
holders. The Company is committed to transparency in all its dealings and places emphasis on business ethics.

2.

Board of Directors
The Board consists 6 Directors viz., three Independent and three Non-Independent, out of which two Independent
Directors are women Directors. Out of the three non-Independent directors, one is a Managing Director, and which
is in conformity with the requirement of Regulation 17 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations). The Chairman of the Board is a Non-Executive
and Non-Independent Director.
Except the Managing Director and Independent Directors, remaining two Non-Executive Directors are liable to
retire by rotation. In the ensuing Annual General Meeting, one Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director is
being proposed for his re-appointment by the Board of Directors of your Company. There is no relationship between
the Directors inter-se during the period under review, other than payment of sitting fees, and reimbursement of
expenses incurred by them for the purpose of attending meetings of the Company. Mr. Mukesh Butani, Ms. Akila
Krishnakumar and Ms. Nishi Vasudeva, Independent Directors have been appointed for a period of three years, w.e.f.
December 24, 2019 and upto December 23, 2022.
i)

Composition/Category of Directors/Attendance at Meetings/Directorships and Committee Memberships in
other companies as on December 31,2019

Name

Director name

Category (1)

Attendance

Directorship in other Committee
membership/
public companies(2)
Chairmanship
in Public Companies(3)

Kind of
Directorship

Board
Board
Meetings
Meetings
held during Attended
2019

Last AGM
Chairman Director
attendance

Member

Chairman

Mr. Frank Duggan
(Chairman) A

NED

1

NA

0

0

0

0

Mr. Venu Nuguri

Managing Director

3**

NA

0

0

2

0

Mr. Sanjeev SharmaC

NED

8

NA

0

1

1

0

Mr. Mukesh ButaniD

NED (I)

1

NA

0

1

2

1

Ms Akila KrishnakumarE

NED (I)

1

NA

0

4

6

2

Ms Nishi VasudevaF

NED (I)

1

NA

0

6

8

2

Mr. Gururaj BhujangaraoG

NED

8

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Mr. Sridhar Krishnaswamy
TyagavalliH

NED

9

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Mr. Achim Michael BraunI

NED

2

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Mr. Ismo Antero HakaJ

NED

2

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

B

9

1)

Category : NED - Non-executive Director, MD - Managing Director, NED (I) - Non-executive Director and
Independent.

2)

Includes directorships in public limited companies, whether listed or not and excludes directorships in and all
other companies including private limited companies, foreign companies and companies under Section 8 of
the Companies Act, 2013. None of the Directors of the Company hold independent directorships in more than
7 listed companies.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

67

3)

No director shall hold office as a director in more than 10 public companies. No director of the Company
shall serve on more than 10 committees or can act as chairman of more than five committees across all Indian
public limited companies in which he/she is a Director. For the purpose of this limitation, membership and
chairmanship of the Audit committee and Stakeholders Relationship committee are only considered including
that of ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited. No Independent Director shall serve as Independent
Director in more than seven listed companies or three listed companies in case he/she is a whole-time director
in any listed company.

4)

A-Appointed as Director and Chairman of the Board w.e.f. December 24, 2019

		

B-Appointed as Director and Managing Director w.e.f. December 2, 2019

		

C-Appointed as Director w.e.f. February 19, 2019

		

D, E AND F-Appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. December 24, 2019

		

G and H-Appointed as Director w.e.f. February 19, 2019 and resigned w.e.f. December 24, 2019 and the other
details have been included as on December 31, 2019.

		

I and J-Appointed as Director w.e.f. November 22, 2019 and resigned w.e.f. December 16, 2019 and the other
details have been included as on December 31, 2019.

*In addition, one meeting of Audit Committee was held during the financial period on December 24, 2019.
**was also present in Board meeting held on November 22, 2019
NOTE: All Independent Directors fulfil the requirements stipulated in Regulation 25 (1) of the Listing Regulations.
ii)

None of the directors are related to each other within the meaning of the term “Relative” as per Section 2(77)
of the Companies Act, 2013.

iii) No. of Board Meetings held in the Financial period 2019 and dates on which held
The Board has held 9 meetings during the Financial period 2019 i.e., on March 1, 2019, March 5, 2019, May 10,
2019, August 30, 2019, October 1, 2019, October 22, 2019, November 22, 2019, December 9, 2019 and December
24, 2019.
iv)

None of the Directors hold equity shares or convertible instruments in the Company.

v)

The Independent Directors, who are from diverse fields of expertise and have long standing experience and
expert knowledge in their respective fields are very relevant as well as of considerable value for the Company’s
business.
As the Board was re-constituted on December 24, 2019, the familiarization programme was organised for
Independent Directors on February 07, 2020 wherein they were familiarised with the business, products of the
Company, tour of power tech and factory at Maneja, Gujarat.

vi)

A letter of appointment encompassing the terms and conditions of appointment, roles, duties and liabilities
have been issued to the Independent Directors. The terms and conditions of appointment of the Independent
Directors are disclosed in the Company’s website at : https://new.abb.com/grid/appsil/investors-section

vii) During the financial period, a separate meeting of the Independent Directors was not required to be held as
Board was re-constituted and Independent Directors were appointed w.e.f. December 24, 2019.
viii) As the Board was re-constituted on December 24, 2019, the periodical review by Board of Statutory reports
was not applicable. In future the Board will periodically review the compliance reports that will be submitted
by the management in respect of all laws applicable to the Company.

68

3.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Audit Committee
i)

Terms of reference

The Audit Committee acts on the terms of reference given by the Board pursuant to Section 177 of the Act and
Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations.
The terms of reference are briefly described below:
•
•

•
•

Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure
that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible;
Recommending the Board, appointment, re-appointment, replacement or removal (in the event of necessity)
of Statutory Auditors, Cost Auditors, Secretarial Auditors and / or any other auditors including fixation of
remuneration;
Approval of payment to Statutory Auditors for any other services rendered by the Statutory Auditors;
Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval,
with particular reference to:
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
g)

•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•

matters required to be included in the Director’s Responsibility Statement to be included in the Board’s
report in terms of sub- section (5) of Section 134 of the Act;
changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same;
major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management;
significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings;
compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements;
disclosure of any related party transactions; and
qualifications in the draft audit report.

Reviewing, with the management:
–
the quarterly financial statements before submission to the Board for approval;
–
performance of Auditors, Internal Auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems;
review and monitor the auditor’s independence and performance and effectiveness of audit process;
review the adequacy of Internal Audit function including the structure of the internal audit department, staffing
and seniority of the head of the department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit;
approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the Company with the related parties;
approval on appointment of Chief Financial Officer including the Whole time Director- Finance or any other
person heading the finance function or discharging that function after assessing the qualification, experience
and background etc., of such incumbent;
reviewing the proposal for discontinuation/closure of any of the business operations of the Company;
scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary;
monitoring the end use of funds raised through public offers and related matters;
review proposal for mergers, demergers, acquisitions, carve-outs, sale, transfer of business and its valuation
report and fairness opinion, if any, thereof;
evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems;
discussing with internal auditors any significant findings and follow up there on;
reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where there is
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the
matter to the Board;
discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well
as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern;
to look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders,
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors;
review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism.
carry out such other function as may be delegated by the Board from time to time.
review various investment proposals before the same is submitted to the Board of Directors and also to review
the guidelines for investing surplus funds of the Company;
to appoint valuers for the valuation of the undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary
including stocks, shares, securities, goodwill or any other assets or net worth of a Company or liability of the
Company under the provisions of the Act.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

69

In addition to the above, the following items will be reviewed by the Audit Committee:
•
•
•
•
•

management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations;
statement of significant related party transactions, (as defined by the Audit Committee) submitted by management;
management letters/letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors;
internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses; and
appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor.

The Audit Committee is vested with the necessary powers to achieve its objectives.
The Committee has discharged such other role/function as envisaged under Regulation 18 (3) read with Part C of
Schedule II of the Listing Regulations and the provisions of Section 177 of the Act.
ii)

Composition, name of members & Chairperson, meetings held during the financial period and attendance at
meetings
The Audit Committee presently consists of three Independent Directors and one Executive Director (Managing
Director). The Committee was constituted on December 24, 2019 and had one meeting during the financial
period on December 24, 2019. The composition of the Audit Committee as on December 31, 2019 and the
attendance of members at the meetings held during the Financial period 2019 were as follows:

Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Mr. Mukesh Butani (Chairman) (Independent Director)

1

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (Independent Director)

1

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (Independent Director)

1

Mr. Venu Nuguri

1

Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, General Counsel, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to
the Audit Committee.
4.

Nomination and Remuneration Committee
i)

Terms of reference
The terms of reference and role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee are as per the provisions of
Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations which includes formulating the criteria to:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Determine qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and recommend to the Board
a policy, relating to the remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel and other employees;
Evaluation of Independent Directors and the Board;
Devising a policy on Board diversity;
Identifying persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management
in accordance with the criteria laid down and recommend to the Board their appointment and removal.
Recommending to the Board on remuneration, Performance Bonus etc., payable to the Executive
Director(s)/Managing Director, Commission payable to Independent Directors.
The policy has been approved by Board of Directors on December 24, 2019 and by Nomination and
Remuneration Committee in the meeting held on February 27, 2020.

The terms and conditions of appointment are disclosed in the website of the Company at https://new.abb.
com/grid/appsil
ii)

Composition, name of members & Chairperson, meetings held during the financial period and attendance
at meetings.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee presently consists of three Non-Executive Directors, two being
independent. The Chairman is a Non-Executive and Independent Director. The Committee was constituted on
December 24, 2019 and no meeting was held during the period under review. The composition of the Nomination
and Remuneration Committee as on December 31, 2019 and the attendance of members at the meeting held
during the Financial period 2019 were as follows:

70

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (Chairperson) (Independent Director)

-

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (Independent Director)

-

Mr. Frank Duggan (Non-Executive and Non-Independent)

-

iii) Remuneration Policy/Criteria for payments to Directors/Senior Management Employees
The Company has a credible and transparent policy in determining and accounting for the remuneration of the
Executive/Non-Executive Independent Directors. Independent Directors’ remuneration is governed by the
external competitive environment, track record of the individuals, effective participation in the meetings,
comparable industry standards and performance of the Company. The remuneration determined for the
Executive/Independent Directors is subject to the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee and approval of the Board of Directors.
As the Committee was constituted and policy was adopted on December 24, 2019, the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee was not required to review any performance. The Board decided on the remuneration
of the Managing Director and other Key Managerial Personnel. Going forward from FY 2020, the Board and the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee will review the performance of the Board and of Independent
Directors on the basis of the criteria such as the contribution of the individual director to the Board and
Committee meetings like preparedness on the issues to be discussed, meaningful and constructive contribution
and inputs in meetings, etc.
The Non-Executive Independent Directors will be compensated by way of a profit-sharing commission from
FY 2020 and the criteria being their attendance in the Board/Committee Meetings, apart from sitting fees
and reimbursement of other expenses.
As per policy, the Non-Executive - Non-Independent Directors are neither paid sitting fee nor paid any commission.
The Independent Directors are entitled to sitting fees for attending the Board/Committee Meetings. Sitting
fees for Board and Audit Committee Meetings is INR 20,000/- per Director per meeting and for other
Committees, viz., Corporate Social Responsibility, Stakeholders Relationship, Nomination and Remuneration
and Risk Management, the sitting fees is INR 10,000/- per Director per meeting.
The remuneration payable to the Managing Director and Senior Management personnel including KMP are
structured as fixed and variable components. The fixed remuneration comprises salaries, perquisites and
retirement benefits and the variable component comprises annual performance bonus which is linked to the
achievement of the score card fixed at beginning of the year.
5.

Details of remuneration to all the Directors paid during the Financial period 2019
(Amount in INR lakhs)
Name

Sitting Fees

Mr. Frank Duggan (Chairman) A
Mr. Venu NuguriB**
Mr. Sanjeev SharmaC
Mr. Mukesh ButaniD
Ms. Akila KrishnakumarE
Ms. Nishi VasudevaF
Mr. Gururaj BhujangaraoG
Mr. Sridhar Krishnaswamy TyagavalliH
Mr. Achim Michael Braun I
Mr. Ismo Antero Haka J

0.40^
0.40^
0.40^
-

**
^
A
B
C
D, E and F
G and H
I and J

Salary &
Perquisites
21.51
-

Commission
-

Stock Option

Pension

-

-

In addition to the Salary/Perquisites mentioned above,the Managing Director is entitled for
Management Incentive Program (MIP)
Sitting fees for Board and Audit committee meeting held on December 24, 2019 paid in FY 2020
Appointed as Director and Chairman of the Board w.e.f. December 24, 2019
Appointed as Director and Managing Director w.e.f. December 2, 2019
Appointed as Director w.e.f. February 19, 2019
Appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. December 24, 2019
Appointed as Director w.e.f. February 19, 2019 and resigned w.e.f. December 24, 2019
Appointed as Director w.e.f. November 22, 2019 and resigned w.e.f. December 16, 2019

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

71

Commission to Independent Directors: Effective FY 2020.
1
2
3

For Board Meetings: a fixed amount of INR 25 lakhs/- per Independent Director based on 100 percent
participation by way of attendance in the meetings.
For Committee Meetings: a fixed amount of INR 3 lakhs/- per Independent Director based on 100 percent
participation by way of attendance in the meetings.
For Chairman of the Audit Committee: a fixed amount of INR 8 lakhs/- for 100 percent participation by way of
attendance in the meetings.

The above commission payable to Independent Directors of the Company however shall not exceed in the aggregate
1 percent per annum of the net profits of the Company computed in the manner laid down in the Act. The Board has
authorised the Chairman to determine the amount payable to the eligible Independent Director based on the profits
earned by the Company for the respective year.
Fixed Component/Performance Linked Incentive/Criteria
Performance related Bonus is payable to the Managing Director only as per the terms of Contract entered into
between the Company and the Managing Director.
Service Contract/Notice Period/Severance Fees
a

The Contract of Service entered into by the Company with Mr. Venu Nuguri, Managing Director, provides that
the Company and the Managing Director shall be entitled to terminate the agreement by giving six months’
notice in writing on either side.

b

No severance fee is payable by the Company to the Managing Director on termination of the agreement/s.

Stock Option
		

The Company does not have stock option scheme therefore the same is not applicable.

		

No Director holds any Equity shares of the Company.

		

None of the Non-Executive Directors have any pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company.

Performance Evaluation of Directors
As the Board was re-constituted on December 24, 2019, the performance Evaluation of Directors as required under
the Companies Act, 2013 was not applicable.
6.

Stakeholders Relationship Committee
The said Committee has been authorized to approve the transfer/transmission/transposition/demat/remat of
shares and issue of duplicate share certificates and taking note of Members’ grievances.
Following are the terms of reference of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee:
1

2
3
4

Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the listed entity including complaints related to transfer/
transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/duplicate
certificates, general meetings etc.
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.
Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the listed entity in respect of various services being
rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory notices by the shareholders
of the Company.

The Stakeholders Relationship Committee shall discharge such other role/function as prescribed by the Board of Directors
and/or envisaged under Regulation 20 read with Part D of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations and the provisions of
Section 178 of the Act.

72

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

In order to expedite the process, the Board of Directors has also delegated the authority to the Company Secretary
to approve the share transfers/transmissions and accordingly, the Company Secretary to approve the transfer/
transmission/transposition of shares/remat/demat/issue of duplicate shares requests as and when required from
time to time.
No meeting was held during financial period ended December 31, 2019 as Committee was constituted on December
24, 2019.
The Committee is chaired by Ms. Nishi Vasudeva – Independent Director. Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, Company
Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to the Committee.
The composition of Stakeholders Relationship Committee as at December 31, 2019 and attendance of members
at the meetings held during the Financial period 2019 were as follows:
Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (Chairperson) (Independent Director)

NIL

Mr. Mukesh Butani (Independent Director)

NIL

Mr. Venu Nuguri

NIL

There were no investor queries/investor grievances pending during the period under review. Continuous efforts are
made to ensure that grievances are more expeditiously redressed to the complete satisfaction of the investors.
The details of investors’ complaints received and resolved during the financial period 2019 are as under:

7.

No. of investors’ complaints received
during 2019

No. of investors’ complaints resolved
during 2019

Investors’ complaints pending at the
end of 2019

NIL

NIL

NIL

Risk Management
The Company has in place a mechanism to inform Board Members about the risk assessment and minimization
procedures and review to ensure that executive management controls risks by means of a properly defined frame
work. The Company has formulated a Policy on Risk Management and constituted a Risk Management Committee.
The Board of Directors has adopted the policy in Board meeting held on December 24, 2019. The Risk Management
committee has taken note of the policy in the meeting held on February 27, 2020
The Committee is chaired by Mr. Mukesh Butani – Independent Director. Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, Company
Secretary is the Secretary to the Risk Management Committee.
The composition of the Risk Management Committee as on December 31, 2019 was as follows:

8.

Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Mr. Mukesh Butani (Independent Director)

-

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva (Independent Director)

-

Mr. Frank Duggan (Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director)

-

Mr. Venu Nuguri (Managing Director)

-

Mr. Ajay Singh (Chief Financial Officer)

-

Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Pursuant to Section 135 of the Act, a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee of the Board has been
constituted.
No meetings of Committee were held during the Financial period 2019 as Committee was constituted on December
24, 2019.
The Committee is chaired by Ms. Akila Krishnakumar - Independent Director. The composition of Committee as at
December 31, 2019 and attendance of members at the meetings held during the financial period 2019 were as
follows:

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Members of the Committee

No. of meetings attended

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar (Chairperson) (Independent Director)

-

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma

-

Mr. Venu Nuguri

-

73

The Company has formulated a Policy for its CSR and also identified the following key areas for undertaking
CSR activities#:
•
Promote gender equality and empowering of women in engineering workforce
To promote gender equality by ensuring initiatives to empower/advancement of women and in the engineering
workforce, thereby increasing diversity and inclusion.
•

Endorse education, employability & healthcare
To create necessary infrastructure and resources to enable promotion of primary education among
children and impart vocational skills training to the youth, promoting health care including preventive
health care.

•

Social impact projects
To collaborate with communities to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access to electricity in the
country, especially in rural areas for its development.

•

Support national disaster management and other government initiatives
To actively support national disaster management including relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities
and support in other initiatives for promoting, including preventive measures for health care systems, hygiene
and sanitation.

•

Aid in sustainable development goals
To promote an ecosystem for sustainable development goals by encouraging usage of indigenous, innovative
and sustainable solutions by aiding, development, promoting, facilitating and undertaking testing of new
frontiers of science, technology, engineering, and environment in partnership with like-minded institutions,
incubators and sponsors.
# The CSR policy was revised at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on April 30, 2020

The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee has approved the CSR policy in meeting held on February 27, 2020.
The Company’s CSR policy may be viewed in the Company’s website at : https://new.abb.com/grid/appsil/investorssection
9.

Subsidiary Company
The Company did not have any subsidiary during the period under review.
Policy for material subsidiary:
The policy for material subsidiary can be viewed at: https://new.abb.com/grid/appsil/investors-section.

10. Managing Director (MD) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) certification
As required under Regulation 17 read with Part B of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations, the MD and CFO certification
on the Financial Statements, the Cash Flow Statement and the Internal Control Systems for financial reporting has
been obtained from Mr. Venu Nuguri, Managing Director and Mr. Ajay Singh, Chief Financial Officer. The said
certificate is annexed as Annexure 1 to this report.
11. General Body Meetings
a
		

General Meeting
Since the Company was incorporated only on February 19, 2019, providing the details of AGMs for the last three
years does not arise.

74

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

i)

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Location and time where last three Annual General Meetings (AGMs) were held.
For the Year

Venue

Day & Date

Time

2018

NA

NA

NA

2017

NA

NA

NA

2016

NA

NA

NA

ii)

Extraordinary General Meeting

		

One extraordinary general meeting was held on November 26, 2019 during the period under review.

iii) Special Resolution passed in the previous three Annual General Meetings
		

This is not applicable as Company was incorporated on February 19, 2019 and this is the first Annual General
Meeting of the Company.

b.

Postal Ballot
i.

During the period ended December 31, 2019, the Company has not carried out any Postal ballot.

ii.

Whether any special resolution is proposed to be conducted through postal ballot: None of the
businesses proposed to be transacted at the ensuing AGM require passing of special resolution
through postal ballot and therefore not applicable.

iii.

Procedure for postal ballot: NA

12. Disclosures
i)

Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions.
There was no materially significant related party transaction during the financial period having potential
conflict with the interests of the Company. Transactions with related parties, as per requirements of Indian
Accounting Standard 24, are disclosed in the notes to accounts annexed to the financial statements. Further
the Company has not entered into any transaction of a material nature with the Promoters, subsidiaries of
Promoters, Directors or their relatives etc. that may have potential conflict with the interests of the Company.
All the transactions with related parties were in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis,
except transactions, which are disclosed in the Directors’ Report. In terms of Regulation 23 of Listing
Regulations, the Company obtains prior approval of the Audit Committee for entering into any transaction with
related parties.
Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions can be viewed in the Company’s website. Link for the same
is: https://new.abb.com/grid/appsil/investors-section

ii)

Details of non-compliance by the Company, penalties and strictures imposed on the Company by the Stock
Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory authorities, on any matter related to capital markets during the last three years.
During last financial period from February 19, 2019 to December 31, 2019, neither any penalty nor any stricture
has been passed by SEBI, Stock Exchanges or any other Statutory Authority on matters relating to capital
markets.

iii) Whistle Blower Policy and affirmation that no personnel have been denied access to the Audit Committee.
The Company has adopted Whistle Blower Policy where it has a mechanism for directors and employees to
report concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Code of Conduct/
Business Ethics. No personnel have been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, for making
complaint on any Integrity issue. The policy was adopted in the Board meeting held on December 24, 2019.
The Whistle Blower Policy can be viewed in the Company’s website. Link for the same is: https://new.abb.com/
grid/appsil/investors-section

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

iv)

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

75

Details of compliance with mandatory requirements and adoption of the non-mandatory requirements under
the Listing Regulations.
During the financial period, the Company has fully complied with the mandatory requirements as stipulated
in Companies Act 2013 and the mandatory Listing Regulations as Company was in the process of getting its
equity shares listed.
The Company has adopted C & D of the Non-Mandatory requirements as provided in Part E of Schedule II to
the Listing Regulations and not adopted A, B & E since they are discretionary requirements.

13. Means of Communication
Quarterly Financial Results/Official News Releases
The quarterly/half-yearly/annual financial results will be published in Newspaper or will be released on official news
releases as may be required under the listing regulations and placing on the Company’s website at: https://new.abb.
com/grid/appsil
The quarterly/half-yearly/annual financial results will be published in Newspaper as Management may decide as per
the listing regulations and will also be placed on the Company’s website at: https://new.abb.com/grid/appsil
The Company has a dedicated e-mail ID: in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@abb.com for providing necessary information/
assistance to the investors.
In addition to the above, after announcement of results, the Company may hold conference call with financial
analysts. The transcript of the said conference call if any, will be uploaded on the Company’s website at: https://
new.abb.com/grid/appsil

14. General Shareholder Information
i)

Annual General Meeting Day, Date, Time and Venue: Refer notice convening 1st Annual General Meeting
Agenda proposed for 1st Annual General Meeting:
Item No. 1 – Adoption of Financial Statements and Reports of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon
- To receive, consider and adopt the financial statements, namely, (i) the Audited Balance Sheet as at December
31, 2019, (ii) the Audited Profit & Loss Account for the financial period ended December 31, 2019, (iii) the Cash
Flow Statement for the financial period ended December 31, 2019, (iv) statement of changes in Equity, if any,
(v) an Explanatory Note annexed to, or forming part of, the documents referred to in (i) to (iv) above and the
Reports of Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon
Item No. 2 – Appointment of a Director
Item No. 3 – Appointment of Statutory Auditors for a term of 5 years

ii)

Profile of Director seeking re-appointment
The profile of Director retiring by rotation and seeking re-appointment at the 1st Annual General Meeting is
given in the annexure to the Notice convening the said Annual General Meeting. Said Director is not related
to any other Director on the Board of the Company and Promoters of the Company.

iii)

Financial Year
Company’s financial year is January - December. The Indicative calendar of events for the financial year 2020 is:
Fourth Quarter Financial Results (Year 2019)

February 28, 2020

Postal ballot through remote e-voting

May 12, 2020 to June 10, 2020

Convening of 1st AGM

Refer AGM notice

First Quarter financial results

April 30, 2020

Second Quarter financial results

July/August 2020

Third Quarter financial results

October/November, 2020

76

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

In terms of the circular issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, as a Green Initiative and subsequent
amendment to the Listing Regulations, soft copy of the Notice and the Annual Report for the financial period
2019 would be circulated to the respective e-mail IDs registered and available in Company’s records.
iv)

Date of Book Closure
The Company’s Register of Members and Share Transfer Books will remain closed for the purpose of Annual
General Meeting from August 07, 2020 to August 13, 2020 (both days inclusive).

v)

Dividend Payment Date
The Board is not recommending any dividend and therefore this is not applicable.

vi)

Listing on Stock Exchanges
The Company has received listing approval from BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of India
Limited (“NSE”) and 4,23,81,675 equity shares of the Company have been listed and trading commenced
w.e.f. March 30, 2020 on BSE & NSE.
Regulation 39(4) read with Schedule VI of the Listing Regulations is not applicable to Company for the period
from February 19, 2019 to December 31, 2019. It may be noted that pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement
(Demerger), the Equity shares in demat form were automatically credited into Unclaimed shares account and
Investors Education and Protection Fund Account.

vii)

Stock Code Equity Shares:
NSE
BSE
ISIN

viii)

POWERINDIA
543187
INE07Y701011

Market Price Data
The market price data and volume of the Company’s shares traded in the BSE Limited and the National Stock
Exchange of India Limited, during the financial period 2019 were as follows:
NA as Company was unlisted as on December 31, 2019

ix)

Performance in comparison to broad-based indices such as BSE Sensex, CRISIL index is not applicable as
the Company was an unlisted company as on December 31, 2019.

x)

Registrar and Share Transfer Agents
KFin Technologies Private Limited (Unit: ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli,
Serilingampally Mandal, Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana
Phone No. +91 40 6716 2222, Fax No. +91 40 2342 0814
e-mail: inward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: www.kfintech.com
KFin Technologies Private Limited
(Unit: ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited)
No.59, First Floor, Kamala Nivas, Puttanna Road
Basavanagudi, Bengaluru – 560 004
Phone No. 080-26603411
E-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

xi)

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

77

Share Transfer System
Being a public limited company and being in the process of getting listed and the Company’s shares are to
be compulsory held in demat form, the shares are transferable through the depository system only. As per
Rule 9A of Companies Amendment Act, 2019 physical share transfer of shares has been prohibited. After
listing of equity shares too, as per listing regulations, the physical share transfer is not permitted. therefore,
it is requested to the Shareholders who are holding shares in physical form, to initiate dematerialisation
process of their physical share certificates.

xii)

Shareholding Pattern
Shareholders

As on December 31, 2019

As on December 31, 2018

Sl No. Description

Total Shares

% Equity

Total Shares

% Equity

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14

27,16,841
14,42,173
2,200
10,096
1,74,261
28,15,249
47,238
4,763
22,13,023
1,010
6,31,509
3,17,86,256
643
72,986

6.41
3.40
0.01
0.02
0.41
6.64
0.11
0.01
5.22
0.00
1.49
75.00
0.00
0.17

NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA

NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA

1,96,387
75,718
NIL
1,07,421
83,760
141
4,23,81,675

0.46
0.18
0.00
0.25
0.20
0.00
100.00

NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA

NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA

15
16
17
18
19
20

Mutual Funds
Foreign Portfolio - Corp
Foreign Institutional Investors
Trusts
Alternative Investment Fund
Resident Individuals
Non Resident Indians
Clearing Members
Indian Financial Institutions
Banks
Qualified Institutional Buyer
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd
Foreign Bank
Non-Resident Indian
Non-Repatriable
Bodies Corporates
NBFC
Directors and their relatives
IEPF
HUF
Foreign Nationals
Total:

* On December 24, 2019, the Company allotted 4,23,81,675 Equity shares of INR 2/- each to the shareholders of ABB India
Limited pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement being approved by NCLT, Bengaluru bench. It may be also noted that entire
pre-scheme share capital of 50,000 Equity shares of INR 2/- each stood cancelled upon approval of Scheme of Arrangement.

Distribution of Shareholding as on December 31, 2019
Category

No. of Shareholders

No. of Shares held

% of equity capital

1 – 5000

57257

2964010

6.99

5001 – 10000

26

193151

0.46

10001 – 50000

35

810947

1.91

50001 – 100000

7

534340

1.26

15

37879227

89.38

57340

42381675

100

100001 and above
Total

xiii)

Dematerialisation of shares and liquidity
The equity shares of the Company are available under dematerialised form with National Securities
Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL). The Company’s equity
shares will be compulsorily traded in the dematerialised form.
Consequent to the allotment of 4,23,81,675 equity shares in the Board meeting held on December 24, 2019,
Corporate action commenced on January 22, 2020 and concluded on February 24, 2020. Basis the completion
of all corporate actions, 4,20,57,550 Equity shares representing 99.24 percent of total outstanding Equity
shares are held in demat form (excluding rejected demat cases).

78

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Your Company confirms that the promoters’ holdings were held in electronic form and the same is in line with
the circulars issued by SEBI.
Shareholders who are still holding shares in physical form are requested to dematerialize their shares at the
earliest. For queries/clarification/assistance, shareholders are advised to approach the Company’s Registrar
and Share Transfer Agents.
xiv)

Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any Convertible Instruments, conversion date and likely impact on
equity.
Till date, the Company has not issued GDRs, ADRs or any other Convertible Instruments and as such, there is
no impact on the equity share capital of the Company.

xv)

Code of Conduct
As required under Listing Regulations, the Company has in place a Code of Conduct applicable to the Board
Members as well as the Senior Management Personnel and that the same has been hosted on the Company’s
website. All the Board Members and the Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the
Code of Conduct, as on December 31, 2019. A certificate to that effect is annexed as Annexure 2.
In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations,
2015, the Company has, inter-alia, adopted a Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading Code of
Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (Code) duly approved
by the Board of Directors of the Company w.e.f. February 28, 2020.
As per the above Code, Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda is the Compliance Officer and Ms. Manashwi Banerjee,
Communications - India & South Asia Power Grids is the Chief Investor Relations Officer.

xvi)

Company affirms that all the requirements under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 are complied with.

xvii)

Plant Locations
Plants are located in Maneja, Halol & Savli in Gujarat, Bengaluru & Mysuru in Karnataka

xviii) Commodity Price Risk/Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging activities
The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk on account of import and export transactions entered and
it is exposed to commodity price risk on account of procurement of base metals (Copper and Aluminium) to
be used in manufacturing activities. Details of commodities exposure are provided below:
a) Total Exposure of the Company to commodities in INR 148,92,85,411/b) Exposure of the Company to various commodities:
Commodity Exposure in INR Exposure in Quantity
Name
towards the
terms towards the
particular
particular commodity
commodity
Copper
Aluminium

c)

% of such exposure hedged through commodity derivatives
Domestic market

International market

OTC

OTC

Exchange

Exchange

Total

144,42,76,040

3414 MT

-

-

37%

-

37%

4,50,09,371

355 MT

-

-

56%

-

56%

Commodity risks faced by the Company during the financial period and how they have been managed
The Company is a sizable user of various commodities which exposes it to the price risk on account of
procurement of commodities. The Company is proactively mitigating these risks by entering into
commensurate hedging transactions with banks as per applicable guidelines and group risk management
instructions.

xix)

Address for correspondence *
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
8th Floor, Brigade Opus, 70/401,
Kodigehalli Main Road, Bengaluru - 560 092
Phone No: 080 22041800

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

79

Corporate Secretarial E-mail ID: in-investorhelpdesk_appsil@abb.com
Corporate Website: https://new.abb.com/grid/appsil
*The Registered Office of the Company has been shifted to new address within the local limits of city w.e.f.
March 16, 2020
xx)

The Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company is U31904KA2019PLC121597

xxi)

Compliance Officer
Mr. Poovanna Ammatanda, Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer of the Company and Secretary to
all the Committees of the Board

xxii) Debenture Trustees-Not Applicable
		
xxiii) Details of utilization of funds raised through preferential allotment or qualified institutions placement
as specified under Regulation 32 (7A)-Not applicable
xxiv) where the board had not accepted any recommendation of any committee of the board which is mandatorily
required, in the relevant financial year, the same to be disclosed along with reasons thereof-Not applicable
xxv)

total fees for all services paid by the listed entity and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the statutory
auditor and all entities in the network firm/network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part: During
the period under review, the company was not listed and the Company did not have any subsidiary. Based
on the recommendation of Audit committee, the Board approved remuneration of INR 1,57,00,000/- (Rupees
One crore and fiftyseven lakh only) including reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses but excluding
applicable taxes for conducting statutory audit for financial period ended December 31, 2019 to be paid to
Statutory Auditors. This fee included INR 22,50,000/- (Rupees Twentytwo lakh and Fifty thousand only)
towards one-time additional fee to cover demerger related certification and other efforts.

xxvi) disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, 2013:
a. number of complaints filed during the financial year : NIL
b. number of complaints disposed of during the financial year : NIL
c. number of complaints pending as on end of the financial year : NIL
xxvii) The disclosures of the compliance with corporate governance requirements specified in regulation 17 to 27
and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 shall be made in the section on corporate
governance of the annual report. The Board hereby confirms that it has complied with all the corporate
governance requirements specified in regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of
regulation 46 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 2015.
Disclosures with respect to demat suspense account/unclaimed suspense account Pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement, 799 Equity shares of INR 2/- each of ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited was credited into the demat account of Unclaimed account on December 24, 2019.

15. Discretionary Requirements
•
•
•

•
•

The position of the Chairman and Managing Director are separate
The Company does not maintain a separate office for the Non-Executive Chairman
Post listing w.e.f. March 30, 2020, the quarterly financial results will be published in the newspapers of wide
circulation and not sent to individual shareholders. Further the financial results will be available on the website
of the Company and of Stock Exchanges where the shares of the Company will be listed
The Auditors’ opinion on the financial statements is qualified and the Directors have provided their response
in the Directors Report
Internal Auditor has been appointed and will be reporting directly to the Audit Committee

80

16

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Other requirements as stipulated in SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 2015 and Secretarial
Standards for Directors report:
i)

Names of other listed entities in which person is director and category of directorship:

Sl
no

Director name

Names of other listed entities in which person is director and category of directorship
as on December 31, 2019
NIL

1

Mr. Frank Duggan

2

Mr. Venu Nuguri

NIL

3

Mr. Mukesh Butani

NIL

4

Ms. Akila Krishnakumar

Heidelbergcement India Limited
(Independent Director)
IndusInd Bank Ltd.
(Independent Director)
Matrimony.com Limited
(Independent Director)

5

Ms. Nishi Vasudeva

L&T Infra Debt Fund Limited
(Independent Director)
L&T Finance Holdings Limited
(Independent Director)
HCL Technologies Limited
(Independent Director)

6

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma

ABB India Limited
(Managing Director)

ii)

The list of core skills/expertise/competencies identified by the board of directors as required in the context of
its business(es) and sector(s) for it to function effectively and those actually available with the board.
Skills identified:
Finance and taxation laws knowledge
Diverse business knowledge
Marketing, communication
Compliance
Effective management and delegation

iii) Confirmation from Board that independent directors criteria;
The Board of Directors confirm that in their opinion, the independent directors fulfill the conditions specified
under Companies Act 2013 and of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 2015 and are
independent of the management.
iv) Credit ratings
The Company does not have any debt instrument, fixed deposit programme or any scheme or proposal for
mobilization of funds. Hence, during the Financial period ended December 31, 2019 it had not obtained any
credit rating for this purpose.
v)

Details of utilisation of funds raised through preferential allotment or qualified institutional placement:
The Company did not raise any funds through either preferential allotment or qualified institutional placement.
However, 4,23,81,675 Equity shares were allotted pursuant to Scheme of Demerger.

vi) Certificate from a company secretary in practice that none of the directors on the board of the company have
been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of company by the Board/
Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority:
Enclosed as Annexure 3 .
		
		

For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited

		
Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 30, 2020

Frank Duggan
Chairman
DIN: 02937233

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

81

—
Annexure – I to Directors’ Report
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
To
The Members of ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED,
Corporate Identity No: U31904KA2019PLC121597
Nominal Capital
: Rs. 10 Crores
We have examined all the relevant records of ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited for the purpose of
certifying compliance of the conditions of the Corporate Governance under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for the financial period ended December 31, 2019 (i.e. for a period from the Date of
Incorporation on February 19, 2019 to December 31, 2019). We have obtained all the information and explanations which
to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of certification.
The compliance of conditions of corporate governance is the responsibility of the Management. Our examination was
limited to the procedure and implementation process adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the
conditions of the corporate governance.
This certificate neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations and information furnished to us,
we certify that the Company has applied for Listing the Equity Shares on the Stock Exchanges BSE Limited and
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (i.e. BSE & NSE) and the Company as of December 31, 2019 is voluntarily
complying with the mandatory conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the said Regulations. As regards
Discretionary Requirements specified in Part E of Schedule II of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 the Company has complied with items C and D.

							For V. Sreedharan & Associates
							Company Secretaries
						
(Pradeep B. Kulkarni)
							Partner
Place : Bengaluru						F.C.S.7260; C.P.No.7835
Date : February 28, 2020					
UDIN number:F007260A000580745

82

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Annexure – J to Directors’ Report
FORM MR -3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules 2014]
To,
The Members,
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
CIN: U31904KA2019PLC121597
21st Floor, World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway,
No. 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram West,
Bengaluru - 560055
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good
corporate practices by ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited (hereinafter called the “Company”). Secretarial
Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during
the audit period covering the financial year ended on 31st December 2019, complied with the statutory provisions listed
hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent,
in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed, and other records maintained by the
Company for the financial year ended on 31st December 2019 according to the provisions of:
i.

The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Rules made thereunder and the relevant provisions of
The Companies Act, 1956;
ii. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the Rules made thereunder to the extent of its
applicability to an unlisted Company.
iii. The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Byelaws framed thereunder;
iv. Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
v. The Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992
(‘SEBI Act’): -Not applicable as the Company is not a Listed Company.
vi.

The Company has identified the following laws as specifically applicable to the Company:
1
Factories Act, 1948 & the Central Rules or concerned State Rules, made thereunder
2
Boilers Act, 1923 & Rules made thereunder
3
Electricity Act, 2003
4
Indian Explosives Act, 1884
5
Gas Cylinder Rules, 1981 (under Indian Explosives Act)
6
Static and Mobile Pressure Vessels (Unfired) Rules, 1981 (under Indian Explosives Act)
7
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986
8
The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 & Central Rules/concerned State Rules.
9
The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 & Central Rules/concerned State Rules
10 Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

11
12
13
14
15.
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

83

Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989
The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 & its Central Rules/concerned State Rules.
The Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 & EPF, FPF Schemes.
The Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 & its Central Rules/concerned State Rules.
The Minimum Wages Act, 1948 & its Central Rules/concerned State Rules/ Notification of Minimum Wages
applicable to various class of industries/Trade.
The Payment of Wages Act, 1936 & its Central Rules/concerned State Rules if any.
The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 & its Central Rules/concerned State Rules if any.
The Payment of Gratuity Act & its Central Rules/concerned State Rules if any.
The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 & its Rules.
The Equal Remuneration Act, 1976.
The Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 & its Rules.
The Apprentices Act, 1961 & its Rules.
The Employment Exchange (Compulsory Notification of Vacancies) Act, 1959.
The Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923.
The Industrial Dispute Act, 1947.
The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
The Information Technology Act, 2000.

The Compliance of the above laws was checked in ABB India Limited, the Demerged Company before the Scheme of
Arrangement was approved by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
i.
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI)
ii. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015; Not applicable as the Company is not a Listed Company.
During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,
Standards, etc. mentioned above.
We further report that: The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive
Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the compositions of the Board of Directors that took place during
the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were
sent at least seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications
on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured and recorded as part of
the minutes.
We further report that based on review of compliance mechanism established by the Company and on the basis of the
Compliance Certificate(s) issued by the Company Secretary and taken on record by the Board of Directors at their
meeting(s), we are of the opinion that the management has adequate systems and processes commensurate with its
size and operations, to monitor and ensure compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines; and
The Board of Directors of the Company, at its meeting held on March 5, 2019 approved a scheme of arrangement
amongst the Company, ABB India Limited (“Demerged Company”) and their respective Shareholders and Creditors,
providing for the demerger of ABB India Limited’s power grids business to the Company. The National Company Law
Tribunal has vide its order dated November 27, 2019 sanctioned the Scheme of Arrangement. As per the sanctioned
Scheme of Arrangement between the Company and ABB India Limited, Shareholders of the Demerged Company who
are holding equity shares as on the record date are entitled for one fully paid up equity share of INR 2/- each of the
Company for every five fully paid up equity shares of INR 2/- each held in the Demerged Company.
A scheme of arrangement (“Scheme”) was entered into between (i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”/“Transferor”) and (ii)
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited (“Company”/“Transferee”) and their respective shareholders and creditors,
pursuant to the provisions of Section 230 to 232 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, which provided
for inter alia the Demerger of the Power Grids Business of INABB (“Demerged Undertaking”) and the consequent

84

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

issuance of Equity Shares by the Company to the shareholders of INABB as per the Share Entitlement Ratio. The NCLT
approved the Scheme on November 27, 2019. The Appointed Date of the Scheme is April 1, 2019 and the Effective Date
is December 1, 2019. Upon the Scheme becoming effective and in consideration of vesting of the Demerged Undertaking
from the Transferor to the Transferee, the Transferee has issued and allotted one fully paid Equity Share of INR 2 each
of the Transferee for every five fully paid up equity shares of INR 2 each held in the Transferor (“Share Entitlement Ratio”)
to the shareholders of the Transferor, holding fully paid up equity shares in the Transferor as on the Record Date.
As informed, the Company has responded to notices for demands, claims, penalties etc. levied by various statutory /
regulatory authorities and initiated actions for corrective measures, wherever necessary.
For BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries

Place: Bengaluru
Date: 28th February 2020

Pramod S M
Partner
FCS No: 7834 CP No: 13784
UDIN: F007834A000580318

This report to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this
report.
‘Annexure A’
To,
The Members,
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
CIN: U31904KA2019PLC121597
21st Floor, World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway,
No. 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram West, Bengaluru - 560055
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1
2

3
4
5
6
7

8

Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to
express as opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the
correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct
facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the
Company.
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and
regulations and happening of events etc.
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, Rules, Regulations, standards is the
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
We further report that, based on the information provided by the Company its officers, authorised representatives
during the conduct of the audit and also on the review of quarterly compliance report by the respective departmental
heads/Company Secretary/Managing Director taken on record by the Board of the Company, in our opinion
adequate systems and process and control mechanism exist in the Company to monitor compliance with applicable
general laws like labour laws & Environment laws and Data protection policy.
We further report that the Compliance by the Company of applicable Financial laws like Direct & Indirect tax laws
has not been reviewed in this audit since the same has been subject to review by the statutory financial audit and
other designated professionals.
For BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries

Place: Bengaluru
Date: 28th February 2020

Pramod S M
Partner
FCS No: 7834 CP No: 13784
UDIN: F007834A000580318

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

85

—
MD/CFO Certificate
Annexure 1
To
The Board of Directors
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
We certify that;
A. We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement of ABB Power Products and Systems India
Limited for the period ended December 31, 2019 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
1
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material factor contain
statements that might be misleading;
2
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with
existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.

To the best of our knowledge and belief, no transaction entered into by the Company during the period are
fraudulent, illegal or violate the code of conduct of the Company.

C.

We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls over financial reporting and that we have
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company over financial reporting and we have
disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls
over financial reporting, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken, propose to take, to rectify these
deficiencies. In our opinion, there are adequate internal controls over financial reporting;

D.

We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee that there are:
1
no significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the period;
2
no significant changes in the accounting policies; and
3
no instances of fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement there in, if any, of the management
or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control systems over financial reporting.

E.

We affirm that we have not denied any personnel access to the Audit Committee of the Company and we have provided
protection to whistle blowers from unfair termination and other unfair or prejudicial employment practices.
We further declare that all Board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the
Code of Conduct and Ethics for the period covered by this report.

		
Place: Mumbai
Date: February 28, 2020

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director
DIN:07032076

Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Annexure 2
Declaration by the Managing Director under Listing Regulations regarding compliance with Business Conduct
Guidelines (Code of Conduct).
In accordance with the Listing Regulations, I hereby confirm that all the Directors and the Senior Management
Personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them, for the
Financial period ended December 31, 2019.
For ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
		
Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 30, 2020

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director
DIN: 07032076

86

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Annexure 3
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members of,								
ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED
21st Floor, World Trade Center Brigade Gateway,
No.26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram,
Bengaluru – 560055
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of
ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED having CIN: U31904KA2019PLC121597 and having
registered office at 21st Floor, World Trade Center Brigade Gateway, No.26/1, Dr.Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram,
Bengaluru – 560 055 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of
issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification
Number (DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the
Company & its officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for
the financial period ended on 31st December, 2019 (i.e for a period from the Date of Incorporation on February 19, 2019
to December 31, 2019) have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. No.

Name of Director

DIN

Date of appointment
in Company

1

Mukesh Hari Butani

01452839

24/12/2019

2

Frank Duggan

02937233

24/12/2019

3

Nishi Vasudeva

03016991

24/12/2019

4

Akila Krishnakumar

06629992

24/12/2019

5

Venu Nuguri

07032076

02/12/2019

6

Sanjeev Sharma

07362344

19/02/2019

Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the
management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification.
This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For V. Sreedharan & Associates

(Pradeep B. Kulkarni)
Partner
FCS 7260; CP No. 7835

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 28, 2020
UDIN number F007260A000580701

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
02
Financial Statements

Independent auditor’s report

088 – 94

Balance sheet

95

Statement of profit and loss

96

Statement of cash flow

97

Statement of changes in equity

98

Notes to the financial statements

99 – 135

87

88

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Qualified Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of ABB Power
Products and Systems India Limited (“the Company”),
which comprise the balance sheet as at December 31, 2019
and the statement of profit and loss (including other
comprehensive income), statement of changes in equity
and statement of cash flows for the period from February
19, 2019 (date of incorporation) to December 31, 2019
(“the period”), and notes to the financial statements,
including a summary of the significant accounting policies
and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and
according to the explanations given to us, except for
the effects of the matter described in the Basis for
Qualified Opinion section of our report, the aforesaid
financial statements give the information required by the
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and
give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of
affairs of the Company as at December 31, 2019, and its
profit and other comprehensive income, changes in equity
and its cash flows for the period.
Basis for Qualified Opinion
We draw attention to Note 37 to the financial statements
regarding the Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’) for
demerger of the power grid business of ABB India Limited
with the Company. The scheme of arrangement
(“Scheme”) as envisaged and entered into between
(i) ABB India Limited (“INABB”/“Transferor”) and (ii) the
Company (“Company”/“Transferee”) and their respective
shareholders and creditors, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 230 to 232 and other applicable provisions of the
Companies Act, 2013, which provided for inter alia the
Demerger of the Power Grids Business of INABB
(“Demerged Undertaking”), with an appointed date of
April 1, 2019, has been approved by the National Company
Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’) vide its order dated November 27,
2019 and a certified copy has been filed by the Company
with the Registrar of Companies, Bangalore, on December
1, 2019. As per the applicable accounting standard Ind AS
103, since this demerger is a common control business
combination, the financial information necessitates
restatement by the transferee at carrying amounts not
from the appointed date but from the beginning of the

preceding period in the financial statements which
happens to be the date of incorporation i.e. February 19,
2019. Consequentially, the Company is required as per
AS 103 to give effect to the business combination
from February 19, 2019 (date of its incorporation).
However, the Company has recognized the impact of the
business combination only from April 1, 2019 (i.e. the
appointed date specified in the scheme). Accordingly, we
are unable to comment on the resultant impact on the
Company’s statement of profit and loss (including other
comprehensive income), statement of changes in equity
and statement of cash flows for the period from February
19, 2019 to March 31, 2019. However, there is no impact of
the same on the Company’s balance sheet as at December
31, 2019.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards
on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10)
of the Companies Act, 2013. Our responsibilities under
those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
section of our report. We are independent of the Company
in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit
of the financial statements under the provisions of the
Companies Act, 2013 and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements
and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our qualified opinion.
Other Information
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors
are responsible for the other information. The other
information comprises the information included in the
Company’s annual report, but does not include the
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
The annual report is expected to be made available to us
after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover
the other information and we will not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements,
our responsibility is to read the other information
identified above when it becomes available and, in
doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or
our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears
to be materially misstated.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

When we read the annual report, if we conclude that there
is a material misstatement therein, we are required to
communicate the matter to those charged with
governance and take necessary actions, as applicable
under the applicable laws and regulations.
Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements
The Company’s management and Board of Directors are
responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the
Act with respect to the preparation of these financial
statements that give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs, profit/loss and other comprehensive income,
changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in
accordance with the accounting principles generally
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting
Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of
the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and
for preventing and detecting frauds and other
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate
accounting policies; making judgements and estimates
that are reasonable and prudent; and design,
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal
financial controls that were operating effectively for
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of
the financial statements that give a true and fair view and
are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, management and
Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern,
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless
management either intends to liquidate the Company
or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative
but to do so.
Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the
Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial
Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and
to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

89

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise
professional judgement and maintain professional
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement
of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion,
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or
the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our
opinion on whether the company has adequate internal
financial controls with reference to financial statements
in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our auditor’s report to the related
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future
events or conditions may cause the Company to cease
to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content
of the financial statements, including the disclosures,
and whether the financial statements represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that
achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with
a statement that we have complied with relevant
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to
communicate with them all relationships and other
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

90

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.

As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report)
Order, 2016 (“the Order”) issued by the Central
Government in terms of section 143 (11) of the Act,
we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order,
to the extent applicable.

opinion and to the best of our information and
according to the explanations given to us:
i.

The Company has disclosed the impact of
pending litigations as at December 31, 2019 on
its financial position in its financial statements
- Refer Note 33 to the financial statements;

ii.

The Company has made provision, as required
under the applicable law or accounting
standards, for material foreseeable losses,
if any, on long-term contracts including
derivative contracts- Refer Note 31 C to the
financial statements; and

iii.

There were no amounts which were required to
be transferred to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund by the Company.

(A) As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report
that:
a

b

We have sought and, except for the matter
described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion
paragraph, obtained all the information
and explanations which to the best of our
knowledge and belief were necessary for the
purposes of our audit.
Except for the effects of the matter described
in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph
above, in our opinion proper books of account
as required by law have been kept by the
Company so far as appears from our
examination of those books.

c

The balance sheet, the statement of profit and
loss (including other comprehensive income),
the statement of changes in equity and the
statement of cash flows dealt with by this
Report are in agreement with the books of
account.

d

Except for the effects of the matter described
in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph,
in our opinion, the aforesaid financial
statements comply with the Ind AS specified
under section 133 of the Act.

e

On the basis of the written representations
received from the directors as on December 31,
2019 taken on record by the Board of Directors,
none of the directors is disqualified as on
December 31, 2019 from being appointed as a
director in terms of section 164(2) of the Act.

f

The qualification relating to the maintenance of
accounts and other matters connected
therewith are as stated in the Basis for Qualified
Opinion paragraph above.

g

With respect to the adequacy of the internal
financial controls with reference to financial
statements of the Company and the operating
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our
separate Report in “Annexure B”.

(B) With respect to the other matters to be included in
the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

(C) With respect to the matter to be included in the
Auditors’ Report under section 197(16):
In our opinion and according to the information and
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by
the Company to its directors during the current
period is in accordance with the provisions of section
197 of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director
is not in excess of the limit laid down under section
197 of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has
not prescribed other details under section 197(16)
which are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022
Amrit Bhansali
Partner
Membership No: 065155
UDIN: 20065155AAAAAJ2036
Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 28, 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

91

—
Annexure – A to the Independent
Auditors’ Report
The Annexure referred to in Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of the Company on the financial
statements for the period from February 19, 2019 (date of
incorporation) to December 31, 2019 (“the period”),
we report that:
i)

a

The Company has maintained proper records
showing full particulars, including quantitative
details and situation of fixed assets.

b

The Company has a regular programme of
physical verification of its fixed assets by which
fixed assets are verified every year. In accordance
with this programme, fixed assets were verified
during the year and no material discrepancies
were noticed on such verification. In our opinion,
this periodicity of physical verification is
reasonable having regard to the size of the
Company and the nature of its assets.

c

All the immovable properties were acquired by
the Company during the period, pursuant to a
business combination. Accordingly, as per the
information and explanations given to us and on
the basis of our examination of the records of
the Company and as per the scheme of
arrangement which has been approved by the
National Company Law Tribunal vide its order
dated November 27, 2019, the title deeds of
immovable properties included in property,
plant and equipment are not yet held in the
name of the Company. As explained to us,
registration of the title deeds for such
immovable properties mentioned in the table
below, is in process.
Total number of cases

Gross block
(` in crores)

Net block
(` in crores)

Freehold land (3 cases)

13.71

13.71

Leasehold land (1 case)

8.82

8.75

165.77

155.02

Buildings (32 cases)

ii)

The inventory, except goods-in-transit and stocks
lying with third parties, has been physically verified
by the Management during the period. In our opinion,
the frequency of such verification is reasonable.
The discrepancies noticed on such verification
between the physical stock and book records were
not material. For stocks lying with third parties at the
year-end, written confirmations have been obtained
by the Management.

iii) According to the information and explanation
given to us, the Company has not granted any loans,
secured or unsecured to companies, firms, limited
liability partnerships or other parties covered in the
register maintained under section 189 of the
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”). Accordingly, the
provisions of clause 3(iii) (a), (b) and (c) of the Order
are not applicable to the Company.
iv) According to the information and explanations
given to us, there are no loans, investments,
guarantees and security given in respect of which
provisions of section 185 and 186 of the Act are
applicable. Accordingly, the provisions of clause
3(iv) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
v)

According to the information and explanations
given to us, the Company has not accepted any
deposits from the public. Accordingly, paragraph
3(v) of the Order is not applicable.

vi) We have broadly reviewed the books of account
maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules
prescribed by the Central Government of India for
maintenance of cost records under section 148(1) of
the Act and are of the opinion that prima facie, the
prescribed accounts and records have been made
and maintained. However, we have not made a
detailed examination of the records.
vii) a

According to the information and explanations
given to us and on the basis of our examination
of the records of the Company, amounts
deducted/accrued in the books of account in
respect of undisputed statutory dues including
provident fund, employees’ state insurance,
income tax, duty of customs, goods and services
tax, cess and other material statutory dues
have been regularly deposited during
the period by the Company with the
appropriate authorities. As explained to us, the
Company did not have any dues on account of
sales tax, value added tax, service tax and duty
of excise.
According to the information and explanations
given to us, no undisputed amounts payable
in respect of provident fund, employees’
state insurance, income tax, duty of
customs, goods and services tax, cess and other
material statutory dues were in arrears as at

92

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

December 31, 2019 for a period of more than six
months from the date they became payable.
b

According to information and explanations
given to us, there are no dues of income tax,
sales tax, service tax, duty of excise, value
added tax, goods and services tax or duty of
customs which have not been deposited by the
Company on account of disputes.

viii) According to the information and explanations
given to us, the Company did not have any
outstanding loans or borrowings from any
financial institution or bank or government or
dues to debenture holders during the period.
ix)

The Company did not raise any money by way of
initial public offer or further public offer (including
debt instruments) and term loans during the
period. Accordingly, paragraph 3 (ix) of the Order
is not applicable.

x)

According to the information and explanations
given to us, no fraud by the Company or on the
Company by its officers or employees has been
noticed or reported during the course of our audit.

xi)

According to the information and explanations
give to us and based on our examination of
the records of the Company, the Company has
paid/provided for managerial remuneration in
accordance with the requisite approvals mandated
by the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule
V to the Act.

xii)

In our opinion and according to the information
and explanations given to us, the Company is not a
Nidhi company. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xii) of
the Order is not applicable.

xiii) According to the information and explanations
given to us and based on our examination of the
records of the Company, transactions with the
related parties are in compliance with sections 177
and 188 of the Act where applicable and details
of such transactions have been disclosed in the
financial statements as required by the applicable
accounting standards.
xiv)

According to the information and explanations
give to us and based on our examination of the
records of the Company, the Company has not
made any preferential allotment or private
placement of shares or fully or partly convertible
debentures during the year.

xv)

According to the information and explanations
given to us and based on our examination of the
records of the Company, the Company has not
entered into non-cash transactions with directors

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

or persons connected with him. Accordingly,
paragraph 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable.
xvi)

The Company is not required to be registered
under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India
Act 1934.
for B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration number: 101248W/W-100022
Amrit Bhansali
Partner
Membership number: 065155
UDIN: 20065155AAAAAJ2036
Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 28, 2020

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

93

—
Annexure B to the Independent
Auditors’ Report
On the financial statements of ABB Power Products and
Systems India Limited for the period from February 19,
2019 to December 31, 2019.

as required under the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter
referred to as “the Act”).
Auditors’ Responsibility

Report on the internal financial controls with
reference to the aforesaid financial statements under
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the
Companies Act, 2013
(Referred to in paragraph 1(A)(f) under ‘Report on Other
Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our
report of even date)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements of ABB Power Products
and Systems India Limited (“the Company”) as of
December 31, 2019 in conjunction with our audit of the
financial statements of the Company from February 19,
2019 (‘date of incorporation’) to December 31, 2019
(‘the period’).
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects,
adequate internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements and such internal financial controls
were operating effectively as at December 31, 2019, based
on the internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements criteria established by the Company
considering the essential components of internal control
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial
Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial
Controls
The Company’s management and the Board of Directors
are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal
financial controls based on the internal financial controls
with reference to financial statements criteria established
by the Company considering the essential components of
internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These
responsibilities include the design, implementation and
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that
were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to
company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information,

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted
our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the
Standards on Auditing, prescribed under section 143(10)
of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal
financial controls with reference to financial statements.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we
comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
adequate internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements were established and maintained
and whether such controls operated effectively in all
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial
controls with reference to financial statements and their
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
controls with reference to financial statements included
obtaining an understanding of such internal financial
controls, assessing the risk that a material weakness
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the
risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial controls with Reference to
Financial Statements
A Company’s internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial
controls with reference to financial statements include
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,

94

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements
in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with
authorisations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition,
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have
a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial controls with
Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial
controls with reference to financial statements, including
the possibility of collusion or improper management
override of controls, material misstatements due to error
or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections
of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements to future periods are
subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
for B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022
Amrit Bhansali
Partner
Membership No: 065155
UDIN: 20065155AAAAAJ2036
Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 28, 2020

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

95

—
Balance Sheet
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Balance sheet as at December 31, 2019

Notes

Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Capital work-in-progress
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Financial assets
Loans
Non-current tax assets (net)
Other non-current assets

December 31, 2019

3
3
4
4

539.71
56.69
31.80
7.94

5
6
7

4.58
11.53
2.79
655.04

8

493.20

9
10
5
11
12

1,792.85
188.04
8.30
125.58
225.72
2,833.69
3,488.73

Equity and liabilities
Equity
Equity share capital
Other equity

13
14

8.48
831.34
839.82

Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities (net)

15
16

1.18
4.16
5.34

17

347.62

18
18
15
19
20

6.46
1,269.05
254.70
626.28
139.46
2,643.57

Current assets
Inventories
Financial assets
Trade receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Loans
Other financial assets
Other current assets
Total Assets

Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
Trade payables
Total outstanding dues to micro enterprises and small enterprises
Total outstanding dues to creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
Other financial liabilities
Other current liabilities
Provisions

Total Equity and liabilities

3,488.73

Summary of significant accounting policies
2
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements		
As per our report of even date attached
for B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022

for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : U31904KA2019PLC121597

Amrit Bhansali
Partner
Membership no.: 065155

Frank Duggan
Chairman
DIN: 02937233
Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 28, 2020

Mumbai
February 28, 2020

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director
DIN: 07032076

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839
Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

96

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Statement of Profit and Loss
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

Notes

Income
Revenue from operations
Other income

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
3,230.74
0.47

21
22

Total income

3,231.21

Expenses
Cost of raw materials, components consumed and project bought outs
(Increase)/ decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods
Subcontracting charges
Employee benefit expenses
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Finance costs
Other expenses

1,752.22
55.55
269.48
249.76
48.41
26.38
567.97

23
24
25
26
27
28

Total expenses

2,969.77

Profit before exceptional items and tax
Exceptional items

261.44
40.79

37

Profit before tax
Tax expense:
Current tax
Deferred tax

220.65
62.20
(6.94)
55.26
165.39

16
16

Profit for the period
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Re-measurement income on defined benefit plan
Income tax effect
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of income tax

0.67
(0.17)
0.50

16

Total comprehensive income for the period, net of income tax

165.89

Earnings per equity share of face value of INR 2 each
Basic
Diluted

29

Summary of significant accounting policies
				
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements

2

44.69
44.69

As per our report of even date attached
for B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022

for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : U31904KA2019PLC121597

Amrit Bhansali
Partner
Membership no.: 065155

Frank Duggan
Chairman
DIN: 02937233
Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 28, 2020

Mumbai
February 28, 2020

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director
DIN: 07032076

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839
Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

97

—
Statement of Cash Flow
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

Particulars
A.

Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax

220.65

Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows provided by operating activities
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Unrealised exchange loss/(gains) (net)
Mark to market change in forward and commodity contracts
(Profit)/loss on sale of fixed assets (net)
Provision for doubtful debts and advances/Bad debts/advances written off
Interest income
Interest expense
Operating profit before working capital changes

48.41
(0.71)
(20.56)
0.34
5.21
(0.47)
26.38
279.25

Movement in working capital
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables
Increase/(decrease) in other financial liabilities
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities and provisions
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivables
(Increase)/decrease in inventories
(Increase)/decrease in other financial assets
(Increase)/decrease in loans and other assets
Cash generated from operations
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
Net cash flow used in operating activities

192.93
(44.97)
14.72
(379.00)
(23.62)
123.82
(162.06)
1.07
(73.73)
(72.66)

B.

Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of intangible assets
Decrease in capital advances
Interest received
Net cash flow used in investing activities

(79.28)
0.08
(0.28)
6.24
0.47
(72.77)

C.

Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from borrowings
Interest paid
Net cash flow from financing activities

347.62
(14.15)
333.47

Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
Effect of exchange (loss) / gain on cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period (Refer note 10)

188.04
188.04

Components of cash and cash equivalents
Cash and bank balances

188.04
188.04

Note:
1) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year represent cash and cheques on hand/remittance in transit and cash and deposits with banks.
2) Cash flow statement is made using the indirect method.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements

As per our report of even date attached
for B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022

for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : U31904KA2019PLC121597

Amrit Bhansali
Partner
Membership no.: 065155

Frank Duggan
Chairman
DIN: 02937233
Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 28, 2020

Mumbai
February 28, 2020

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director
DIN: 07032076

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839
Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

98

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

—
Statement of changes in equity
for the period from February 19, 2019 to December 31, 2019
a. Equity share capital:
Equity shares of INR 2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Particulars

Number of shares
50,000
42,331,675
42,331,675

As at February 19, 2019
Changes in equity share capital
As at December 31, 2019

Amount
0.01
8.47
8.48

b. Other equity
(` in Crores)
Particulars

As at February 19, 2019
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement
(Refer note 37)
Profit for the period
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)
As at December 31, 2019

Reserves and surplus
Retained
Capital
earnings
reserve

Securities
premium

General
reserve

9.80

507.10

149.93

9.80

507.10

165.39
0.50
315.82

Total equity

0.18

Amalgamation
adjustment
deficit account
(1.56)

0.18

(1.56)

165.39
0.50
831.34

665.45

Summary of significant accounting policies
2		
				
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
for B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022

for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : U31904KA2019PLC121597

Amrit Bhansali
Partner
Membership no.: 065155

Frank Duggan
Chairman
DIN: 02937233
Ajay Singh
Chief Financial Officer

Place: Bengaluru
Date: February 28, 2020

Mumbai
February 28, 2020

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director
DIN: 07032076

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839
Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel &
Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

99

—
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. Corporate information							
								
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited (‘the Company’) is a public limited company domiciled in India and
incorporated under the provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 2013 on February 19, 2019. The registered office is
located at Bengaluru. The Company will serve utility and industry customers, with the complete range of engineering,
products, solutions and services in areas of Power technology. The Company has extensive installed base for
manufacturing and a countrywide marketing and service presence. Besides catering to Indian domestic market, the
Company is also playing an increasing role in the global market.
The Company has applied for listing its equity shares in India and its application is under consideration with
Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI). Once the Company is listed, its shares will be listed on Bombay Stock
Exchange (BSE) and National Stock Exchange (NSE).
The financial statements are prepared from the date of incorporation i.e. February 19, 2019 to December 31, 2019
(‘the period’) and the same has been approved for issue by the Company’s Board of Directors on February 28, 2020.
													

2. Significant accounting policies
2.1

Basis of preparation of financial statements								
A
Statement of compliance
				
These financial statements are prepared and presented in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind AS”)
notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies (Indian Accounting
Standards) Amendment Rules, 2016 and other relevant provision of the Act as amended from time to time.
			
B
Functional and presentation currency
				
The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees crores, rounded off to two decimal places,
except where otherwise indicated.			
				
C
Basis of measurement
				
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost convention and on accrual basis,
except for certain financial instruments (refer accounting policy regarding financial instruments),
which are measured at fair values at the end of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting
policies below.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and
services as at the date of respective transactions.		

2.2 Use of estimates
								
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with Ind AS requires management to make estimates,
judgements and assumptions. These estimates, judgements and assumptions affect the application of
accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the period. Application of accounting policies that require critical accounting estimates involving complex and
subjective judgements and the use of assumptions in these financial statements have been disclosed in Note
2.3. Accounting estimates could change from period to period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Appropriate changes in estimates are made as management becomes aware of changes in circumstances
surrounding the estimates. Changes in estimates are reflected in the financial statements in the period in
which changes are made and, if material, their effects are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.

10 0

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

2.3

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
2.3.1 Estimates
								
a. Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment represent a significant proportion of the asset base of the
Company. The charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining an estimate
of an asset’s expected useful life and the expected residual value at the end of its life. The useful
lives and residual values of Company’s assets are determined by management at the time the
asset is acquired and reviewed periodically, including at each financial year end. The lives are
based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future events, which
may impact their life, such as changes in technology.
b.

Employee benefits
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are
determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions
that may differ from actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the
discount rate, future salary increases and mortality rates. Due to the complexities involved in the
valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in
these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. The parameter most
subject to change is the discount rate. In determining the appropriate discount rate for plans
operated in India, the management considers the interest rates of government bonds in currencies
consistent with the currencies of the post-employment benefit obligation. The mortality rate is
based on publicly available mortality tables. Those mortality tables tend to change only at interval
in response to demographic changes. Future salary increases and gratuity increases are based on
expected future inflation rate and past trends. Further details about gratuity obligations are
given in Note 30.

c.

Provision for litigations and contingencies
The provision for litigations and contingencies are determined based on evaluation made by the
management of the present obligation arising from past events the settlement of which is
expected to result in outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, which involves
judgements around estimating the ultimate outcome of such past events and measurement of
the obligation amount. Due to the judgements involved in such estimations the provisions are
sensitive to the actual outcome in future periods.

d.

Project revenue and costs
The Company uses the percentage-of-completion method in accounting for its fixed-price
contracts. Use of the percentage of completion method requires the Company to estimate the
efforts or costs expended to date as a proportion of the total efforts or costs to be expended.
Efforts or costs expended have been used to measure progress towards completion as there is a
direct relationship between input and productivity. Provisions for estimated losses, if any, on
uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which such losses become probable based
on the expected contract estimates at the reporting date.			

2.3.2 Judgements
								
Information about judgements made in applying accounting policies that have the most significant
effects on the amounts recognised in the financial statements is included in the following notes:
			
- Note 34(b) - leases: whether an arrangement contains a lease; and
- Note 34(b) - lease classification;

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

10 1

2.4 Current and non-current classification						
								
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current/ non-current classification.
An asset is treated as current when it is:			
•
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal operating cycle;
•
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;		
•
Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period; or			
•
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least
twelve months after the reporting period.
All other assets are classified as non-current.
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non-current as per the Company’s operating cycle
and other criteria set out in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013. Based on the nature of products and the
time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realization in cash and cash equivalents, the
Company has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months for the purpose of current and non-current
classification of assets and liabilities, except for projects business. The projects business comprises
long-term contracts which have an operating cycle exceeding one year. For classification of current assets
and liabilities related to projects business, the Company uses the duration of the individual life cycle of the
contract as its operating cycle.
A liability is current when:
•
It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle;
•
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
•
It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period; or
•
There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the
reporting period;
The Company classifies all other liabilities as non-current;
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities.
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in cash
and cash equivalents.
2.5 Foreign currency
								
Functional currency
The functional currency of the Company is the Indian Rupee.		
Transactions and translations
Initial recognition transactions in foreign currencies are recorded by the Company at their respective
functional currency spot rates at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency
spot rates of exchange at the reporting date. The gains or losses resulting from such translations are
recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
Non-monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign currency and measured at fair
value are translated at the exchange rate prevalent at the date when the fair value was measured.
Non-monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign currency and measured at
historical cost are translated at the exchange rate prevalent at the date of the transaction.
Transaction gains or losses realized upon settlement of foreign currency transactions are included in
determining net profit for the period in which the transaction is settled. Revenue, expense and cash flow items
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currencies using the exchange
rate in effect on the date of the transaction.						
													

10 2

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

2.6 Revenue Recognition 							
								
The Company has adopted Ind AS 115, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. Revenue is recognised to
the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue can be
reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being made. Revenue is measured at the fair value of
the consideration received or receivable, taking into account contractually defined terms of payment and
excluding taxes or duties collected on behalf of the government. The Company has concluded that it is the
principal in all of its revenue arrangements since it is the primary obligor in all the revenue arrangements as
it has pricing latitude and is also exposed to inventory and credit risks.
Revenue are stated exclusive of goods and service tax and net of trade and quantity discount.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the
goods have passed to the buyer, usually on delivery of the goods. Revenue from the sale of goods is measured
at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns and allowances, trade discounts
and volume rebates.
In case of large transformers, revenue is recognized on achievement of contractual milestone. Revenue
recognized in excess of billing has been reflected under “Other financial assets” as unbilled revenue.
Revenues from long-term contracts are recognized on the percentage of completion method, in proportion
that the contract costs incurred for work performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total
contract costs. Contract revenue earned in excess of billing has been reflected under “Other current assets”
and billing in excess of contract revenue has been reflected under “Other current liabilities” in the balance
sheet. Full provision is made for any loss in the year in which it is first foreseen.
			
Liquidated damages / penalties are provided for as per the contract terms wherever there is a delayed
delivery attributable to the Company.
Revenue from the development services is recognised as per the contract terms and when accrued. When the
contract outcome cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that the expenses
incurred are eligible to be recovered.
Commission income is recognized as per contract terms and when accrued.
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive the payment is established, which is
generally when shareholders approve the dividend.
Interest income is recognised on time proportion basis.
2.7 Income taxes
								
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred income tax. Income tax expense is recognized in net
profit in the statement of profit and loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognized directly in
equity, in which case it is recognized in other comprehensive income. Current income tax for current and prior
periods is recognized at the amount expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax authorities, using the
tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for
all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts
in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the
extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realized.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply to taxable income in the years
in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of changes in tax
rates on deferred income tax assets and liabilities is recognized as income or expense in the period that
includes the enactment or the substantive enactment date. A deferred income tax asset is recognized to the
extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary
differences and tax losses can be utilized. The Company offsets current tax assets and current tax liabilities,
where it has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts and where it intends either to settle
on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
						

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

2.8

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

103

Property, plant and equipment
Recognition and measurement 								
Freehold Land is carried at historical cost, all other item of property, plant and equipment is measured at cost,
net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Cost includes expenditures that
are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the
plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are
met. When significant parts of property, plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the
Company depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major inspection
is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the
recognition criteria are satisfied.
All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in statement of profit or loss as incurred. The Company
identifies and determines cost of each component/part of Property, plant and equipment separately, if the
component/ part has a cost which is significant to the total cost of the Property, plant and equipment and has
useful life that is materially different from that of the remaining asset. Advances paid towards the acquisition
of property, plant and equipment outstanding at each balance sheet date is classified as capital advances and
cost of assets not ready for use at the balance sheet date are disclosed under capital work- in- progress.
Depreciation			
The Company depreciates property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives using the
straight-line method. Leasehold assets are depreciated lower of lease period or life of the assets.
The estimated useful lives of assets are as follows:			
Useful lives estimated by the management in years:
Particulars

Years

Leasehold land
Leasehold improvements
Factory buildings
Other buildings
Furniture and fixtures
Office equipment
Plant and equipment
Vehicles

98
1-10
15-30
3-60
10
3-5
2-21
5

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed periodically, at each reporting date.
2.9 Intangible assets
						
								
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition,
intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related
expenditure is reflected in the statement of profit and loss in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
Amortisation
Amortisation is recognised in the statement of profit and loss on a straight line basis over the estimated
useful lives of the intangible assets.
The estimated useful life of assets are as follows:
Particulars
Technical know-how fees
Capitalized software costs

Years
3-10
3-5

Goodwill on business acquisition is not amortized but tested for impairment.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
			
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment
whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the

10 4

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each
reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future
economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as
appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible
assets with finite lives is recognised in the statement of profit and loss unless such expenditure forms part of
carrying value of another asset.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either
individually or at the cash generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to
determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from
indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
De-recognition
Intangible assets are de-recognised either on their disposal or where no future economic benefits are
expected from their use. Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of an intangible asset are measured as
the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised
in the statement of profit and loss when the asset is derecognised.			
2.10 Leases							
								
Leases under which the Company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified
as finance leases. When acquired, such assets are capitalized at fair value or present value of the minimum
lease payments at the inception of the lease, whichever is lower.
Lease payments under operating leases are charged to statement of profit and loss on straight line basis over
the period of the lease, unless the payments are structured to increase in line with expected general inflation
to compensate for the lessor’s expected inflationary cost increases.						
		
2.11 Borrowing costs											
			
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily
takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost
of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist
of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost
also includes exchange differences to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the borrowing costs.
2.12 Inventories							
								
Inventories consist of raw materials, work-in-progress, finished goods, traded goods and stores an spares.
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of various categories of inventories is arrived at as follows:
Stores, spares, raw materials, components and traded goods - at rates determined on the moving weighted
average method.		
Goods in Transit – at actual cost.			
Work-in-progress and finished goods - at full absorption cost method which includes direct materials, direct
labour and manufacturing overheads. Cost is determined on weighted average method.			
Cost includes expenditures incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other
costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location and condition.
Provision for obsolescence is made wherever necessary.			
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
The factors that the Company considers in determining the provision for slow moving, obsolete and other
non saleable inventory include estimated shelf life, planned product discontinuances, price changes, ageing

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

10 5

of inventory and introduction of competitive new products, to the extent each of these factors impact the
Company’s business and markets. The Company considers all these factors and adjusts the inventory provision
to reflect its actual experience on a periodic basis.		
								
2.13 Financial instruments
2.13.1 Initial recognition				
The Company recognizes financial assets and financial liabilities when it becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument. All financial assets and liabilities are recognized at fair value
on initial recognition, except for trade receivables which are initially measured at transaction price.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and
financial liabilities, that are not at fair value through profit or loss, are added to the fair value on initial
recognition.
2.13.2 Subsequent measurement
a. Non-derivative financial instruments
i)

Financial assets carried at amortised cost
A financial asset is subsequently measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business
where the objective is to hold the asset in order to collect contractual cash flows and the
contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

ii)

Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
A financial asset is subsequently measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income if it is held within a business where the objective is achieved by both collecting
contractual cash flows and selling financial assets and the contractual terms of the
financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The Company has made
an irrevocable election for its investments which are classified as equity instruments
to present the subsequent changes in fair value in other comprehensive income based
on its business model. Further, in cases where the Company has made an irrevocable
election based on its business model, for its investments which are classified as
equity instruments, the subsequent changes in fair value are recognized in other
comprehensive income.

iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
A financial asset which is not classified in any of the above categories are subsequently fair
valued through profit or loss.
iv) Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are subsequently carried at amortized cost using the effective interest
method, For trade and other payables maturing within one year from the balance sheet date,
the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
v)

Derecognition
A financial asset is primarily derecognised when:
• The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or
• The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has
assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to
a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the Company has
transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company has
neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but
has transferred control of the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is
measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum
amount of consideration that the Company could be required to repay.

10 6

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

b.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Derivative financial instruments
The Company holds derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and
option contracts to mitigate the risk of changes in exchange rates on foreign currency exposures.
The counterparty for these contracts is generally a bank.
Financial assets or financial liabilities, at fair value through profit or loss.
This category has derivative financial assets or liabilities which are not designated as hedges.
Although the Company believes that these derivatives constitute hedges from an economic
perspective, they may not qualify for hedge accounting under Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments.
Any derivative that is either not designated a hedge, or is so designated but is ineffective as per
Ind AS 109, is categorized as a financial asset or financial liability, at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivatives not designated as hedges are recognized initially at fair value and attributable
transaction costs are recognized in the statement of profit and loss when incurred. Subsequent
to initial recognition, these derivatives are measured at fair value through profit or loss and the
resulting exchange gains or losses are included in other income/expenses. Assets/liabilities in
this category are presented as current assets/current liabilities if they are either held for trading
or are expected to be realized within 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Certain commercial contracts may grant rights to the Company or the counterparties, or contain
other provisions that are considered to be derivatives. Such embedded derivatives are assessed
at inception of the contract and depending on their characteristics, accounted for as separate
derivative instruments and shown at their fair value in the balance sheet with changes in their fair
value recognized through profit or loss.

2.14 Fair value of financial instruments
Fair value hierarchy:
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are
categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement
is directly or indirectly observable
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement
is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company
determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of
each reporting period.
2.15 Cash flow statement
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, whereby profit for the period is adjusted for the effects
of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or
payments and item of income or expenses associated with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows
from operating, investing and financing activities of the Company are segregated.
2.16 Other income
Other income is comprised primarily of interest income. Interest income is recognized using the effective
interest method.
2.17 Finance costs
Borrowing costs are recognised in the statement of profit and loss using the effective interest method.
The associated cash flows are classified as financing activities in the statement of cash flows.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

107

2.18 Provisions & contingent liability and contingent assets
General
A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, the Company has a present legal or constructive
obligation that is reasonably estimable, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be
required to settle the obligation. If the effect of time value of money is material, provisions are determined
by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of
the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Warranty provisions
Provisions for warranty-related costs are recognised when the product is sold to the customer. Initial
recognition is based on historical experience. The initial estimate of warranty-related costs is revised annually.
Contingent liability
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence will
be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond
the control of the Company or a present obligation that is not recognized because it is not probable that
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. A contingent liability also arises in
extremely rare cases where there is a liability that cannot be recognized because it cannot be measured
reliably. The Company does not recognize a contingent liability but discloses its existence in the
financial statements.
Contingent assets
Contingent assets are not recognised or disclosed in financial statements since this may result in the
recognition of income that may never be realised. However, when the realisation of income is virtually
certain, then the related asset is not a contingent asset and is recognised.
2.19 Impairment
a Financial assets
Financial assets (other than at fair value) The Company assesses at each date of balance sheet whether a
financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. Ind AS 109 (‘Financial Instruments’) requires
expected credit losses to be measured through a loss allowance. The Company recognises lifetime
expected losses for all contract assets and/or all trade receivables that do not constitute a financing
transaction. For all other financial assets, expected credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the
12-month expected credit losses or at an amount equal to the life time expected credit losses if the credit
risk on the financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition. The Company provides for
impairment upon the occurrence of the triggering event.
b

Non-financial assets
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
The Company assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be
impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Company
estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or
cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. Recoverable amount is
determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. When the carrying amount of an asset or
CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to
its recoverable amount.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are evaluated for recoverability whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the purpose
of impairment testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the
value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows
that are largely independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is
determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized in the statement of profit
and loss is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the estimated
recoverable amount of the asset. An impairment loss is reversed in the statement of profit and loss if there

10 8

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss in case
of goodwill is not reversed. The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its revised recoverable
amount, provided that this amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined
(net of any accumulated amortization or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognized for the
asset in prior years.
						
2.20 Earnings per share		 					
								
The Company presents basic and diluted Earnings per share for its ordinary shares. Basic earnings per equity
share is computed by dividing the net profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted
average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per equity share is
computed by dividing the net profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted
average number of equity shares considered for deriving basic earnings per equity share and also the
weighted average number of equity shares that could have been issued upon conversion of all dilutive
potential equity shares. The dilutive potential equity shares are adjusted for the proceeds receivable had the
equity shares been actually issued at fair value (i.e. the average market value of the outstanding equity shares).
Dilutive potential equity shares are deemed converted as of the beginning of the period, unless issued at a
later date. Dilutive potential equity shares are determined independently for each period presented.
2.21 Employee benefits
2.21.1 Gratuity & Provident Fund - Defined benefit plans
The present value of the obligation under defined benefit plans are determined based on actuarial
valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method. In case of funded plans, the fair value of the plan
assets is reduced from the gross obligation under the defined benefit plans to recognize the
obligation on a net basis.
The Company is in process of setting up trust for gratuity and provident fund.
Remeasurement comprising of actuarial gains and losses is recognized in other comprehensive
income (OCI) and is reflected in reserves and surplus as part of equity and is not eligible to be
reclassified to profit or loss.
The Company recognises the following changes in the net defined benefit obligation as an expense
in statement of profit and loss:
•
Service cost including current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on curtailments
and settlements; and
•
Net interest expense or income.
Provident fund has been considered as a defined benefit plan since any additional obligations on
account of investment risk and interest rate risk are required to be met by the Company.
2.21.2 Superannuation - Defined contribution scheme
Contribution to Superannuation Fund, is made at pre-determined rates to the Superannuation
Fund Trust and is charged to the statement of profit and loss during the period in which the
employee renders the related services. There are no other obligations other than the contribution
payable to the Superannuation Fund Trust. The Company is in process of setting up the Superannuation
Fund Trust.
2.21.3 Compensated absences
Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilised within the next 12 months, is treated as shortterm employee benefits. The Company measures the expected cost of such absences as the additional
amount that it expects to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the
reporting date. The Company presents the entire accumulated leave as a current liability in the
balance sheet, since it does not have an unconditional right to defer its settlement for 12 months after
the reporting date.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

10 9

2.22 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits
with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cheque at hand /
remittance in transit and cash and deposit with bank.
2.23 Recent Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
The following new standards and amendment to Ind AS have not been applied by the Company as they are
effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2020:
Standards issued but not effective on Balance Sheet date:
Ind AS 116 - Leases
Ind AS 116, Leases
The Company is required to adopt Ind AS 116 Leases from January 1, 2020. Ind AS 116 replaces existing
leases guidance, including Ind AS 17 Leases. Ind AS 116 introduces a single Balance sheet lease accounting
model for lessees. A lessee recognises a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying
asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. There are recognition
exemptions for short-term leases and leases of low-value items. Lessor accounting remains similar to the
current standard – i.e. lessors continue to classify leases as finance or operating leases.
i.

Leases in which the Company is a lessee
Under the new standard, the Company will be required to recognise new assets and liabilities for its
operating leases. The nature of expenses related to those leases will now change because the Company
will recognise a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and interest expense on lease liabilities.
Previously, the Company recognised operating lease expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the
lease, and recognised assets and liabilities only to the extent that there was a timing difference between
actual lease payments and the expense recognised. The Company is in the process of evaluating the
potential impact of the adoption of Ind AS 116 on accounting policies followed in its financial statements.
The quantitative impact of adoption of Ind AS 116 on the financial statements in the period of initial
application is not reasonably estimatable as at present.

ii. Leases in which the Company is a lessor
No impact is expected for leases in which the Company is a lessor.
iii. Transition
The Company is currently evaluating the implication of Ind AS 116 on the financial statements.
Ind AS 12 – Income taxes (amendments relating to income tax consequences of dividend and uncertainty
over income tax treatments)
An entity shall recognise the income tax consequences of dividends when it recognises a liability to pay a
dividend. Therefore, the entity shall recognise the income tax consequences of dividends in profit or loss,
other comprehensive income or equity according to where the entity originally recognised those past
transactions or events. The Company does not expect any significant impact of this amendment on its
financial statements.
The amendment to Appendix C of Ind AS 12 outlines the following:
a.
whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately - The entity shall use
judgement to determine whether each tax treatment should be considered separately or
together with one or more other uncertain tax treatments based on which approach better
predicts the resolution of the uncertainty and in determining the approach an entity might
consider how it prepares its income tax filings and supports tax treatments; or how the
entity expects the taxation authority to make its examination and resolve issues that might
arise from that examination.
b.

the assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax treatments by taxation authorities. The
entity shall assume that a taxation authority will examine amounts it has a right to examine and have
full knowledge of all related information when making those examinations.

1 10

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

c.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

how an entity determines taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and
tax rates. The entity shall consider the probability of the relevant taxation authority accepting the tax
treatment and the determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax
credits and tax rates would depend upon the aforesaid probability.
The Company does not expect any significant impact of this amendment on its financial statements.
Ind AS 19 – Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement
The amendment clarifies that when determining past service cost, or a gain or loss on settlement due
to plan amendment, curtailment or settlement, an entity shall remeasure the net defined benefit
liability (asset) using the current fair value of plan assets and current actuarial assumptions, including
current market interest rates and other current market prices, reflecting:
a.
b.

the benefits offered under the plan and the plan assets before the plan amendment, curtailment
or settlement; and
the benefits offered under the plan and the plan assets before the plan amendment, curtailment
or settlement; and

Further, if a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs, it is mandatory that the current service
cost and the net interest for the period after the re-measurement are determined using the assumptions
used for the re-measurement. In addition, amendments have been included to clarify the effect of a
plan amendment, curtailment or settlement on the requirements regarding the asset ceiling.
The Company does not expect any significant impact of this amendment on its financial statements.
Ind AS 103 – Business Combinations and Ind AS 111 - Joint Arrangements
The amendment to Ind AS 103 relating to re-measurement clarify that when an entity obtains control of
a business that is a joint operation and had rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating
to that joint operation immediately before the acquisition date, the transaction is a business combination
achieved in stages and the entity shall re-measure its previously held interests in that business. The
amendment to Ind AS 111 clarifies that when an entity obtains joint control of a business that is a joint
operation, the entity does not re-measure previously held interests in that business. The Company will
apply the amendment if and when it obtains control / joint control of a business that is a joint operation.

3 Property, plant and equipment and capital work-in-progress
All amount in Indian Rupees in crores, except as stated otherwise
Owned assets
Freehold
Land

Leasehold
Leasehold
Factory
Land Improvements Buildings

Other
Buildings

Plant and
Equipment

Office
Equipments

Furniture
and Fixtures

Vehicles

Total

Gross carrying value
As at February 19,
2019

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Transfer pursuant
to scheme of
arrangement
(Refer note 37)

13.71

9.53

0.36

130.16

25.74

477.97

5.99

13.02

0.34

676.82

-

-

-

7.95

1.92

Additions
Disposals
As at December 31,
2019

13.71

9.53

0.36

138.11

27.66

49.46

0.12

1.00

-

60.45

(4.99)

(0.06)

(0.29)

(0.03)

(5.37)

522.44

6.05

13.73

0.31

731.90

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

111

Accumulated
depreciation
As at February 19,
2019

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Transfer pursuant
to scheme of
arrangement
(Refer note 37)

-

0.71

0.17

2.89

1.24

144.07

1.81

2.42

0.18

153.49

Depreciation charge
for the period

-

0.07

0.03

4.42

2.20

35.39

0.51

0.99

0.04

43.65

Disposals

-

-

-

-

-

(4.69)

(0.03)

(0.22)

(0.01)

(4.95)

As at December 31,
2019

-

0.78

0.20

7.31

3.44

174.77

2.29

3.19

0.21

192.19

Net carrying value
as at December 31,
2019

13.71

8.75

0.16

130.80

24.22

347.67

3.76

10.54

0.10

539.71

Capital work in
progress as at
December 31, 2019

56.69

Notes:
1) There are no tangible assets given on operating lease.
2) Freehold land, leasehold land, factory buildings and other buildings transferred to the Company, pursuant to the scheme of arrangement,
as detailed in note 37 is in the process of being registered in the name of the Company.

4

Intangible assets
(` in Crores)
Goodwill

Other intangible assets
Technical
Know-how fees

Capitalised
software

Total

35.77

Gross carrying value
As at February 19, 2019
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (Refer note 37)

31.80

33.36

2.41

-

-

0.28

0.28

31.80

33.36

2.69

36.05

Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (Refer note 37)

-

22.18

1.17

23.35

Amortisation charge for the period

-

4.46

0.30

4.76

As at December 31, 2019

-

26.64

1.47

28.11

31.80

6.72

1.22

7.94

Additions
As at December 31, 2019
Accumulated amortisation/impairment
As at February 19, 2019

Net carrying value as at December 31, 2019

The carrying amount of goodwill was allocated to the cash generating units as follows:
Power Grids business

December 31, 2019
31.80
31.80

Goodwill and CGU’s impairment testing
The Company tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment on an annual basis as at December 31. The recoverable
amount of a Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’) is determined based on value-in-use calculations which require the use of
assumptions. The calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the management.
An average of the range of each assumption used is mentioned below.
December 31, 2019
Growth rate

5% - 6%

Operating margins

6% - 13%

Discount rate

9% - 10%

The above discount rate is based on the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) which represents the weighted average
return attributable to all the assets of the CGU. These estimates are likely to differ from future actual results of operations
and cash flows.
Based on the above assessment, there has been no impairment of goodwill.

112

5

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Loans
(` in Crores)
Non-current

Current

December 31, 2019

December 31, 2019

4.58

4.50

-

3.80

4.58

8.30

(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
Security deposits
Loans to employees

6

Non-current tax asset (net)
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
Advance income-tax (net of provision for tax)

11.53
11.53

7

Other non-current assets
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
Capital advances

1.85

Advances recoverable in cash or kind (considered doubtful)

1.94

Less: Provision for doubtful advances

1.94

Taxes and duties recoverable

0.70

Prepaid rent

0.24
2.79

8

Inventories (valued at lower of cost and net reliasable value)
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
Raw materials and components (includes goods in transit goods of `109.08)

332.88

Work-in-progress

146.42

Finished goods

12.15

Traded goods

0.49

Stores and spares

1.26
493.20

During the period ended December 31, 2019, INR 1.71 crores was recognised as an expense in relation to inventory obsolescence.

9

Trade receivables
(` in Crores)
Non-current

Current

December 31, 2019

December 31, 2019

Unsecured
Considered good

-

1,792.85

Considered doubtful

-

107.91

Credit impaired

Less:
Loss allowance on doubtful trade receivable

78.73

-

78.73

1,900.76

78.73

107.91

-

1,792.85

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

113

10 Cash and cash equivalents
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
Balances with banks
- in current accounts

188.04

Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows

188.04

11 Other current financial assets
(Unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
Deposits with customers

11.88

Contract revenue in excess of billing / unbilled revenue

66.45

Other receivables

22.95

Mark to market gain on forward contracts*

13.01

Mark to market gain on embedded derivatives*

11.29
125.58

* Mark to maket gain is identified and accounted based on the underlying contracts. The derivatives are recognised at fair value through
statement of profit & loss.

12 Other current assets
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
Prepaid expenses

1.70

Contract assets (refer note 36)

171.08

Advances recoverable in cash or kind

42.57

Balance with government authorities

10.37
225.72

13 Equity
(` in Crores)
Share capital

As at December 31, 2019
Equity shares
Number of shares

Amount

Authorised share capital
At February 19, 2019

250,000

0.05

Increase during the period

49,750,000

9.95

At December 31, 2019

50,000,000

10.00

Number of shares

Amount

Issued equity share capital
Equity shares of `2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid up
At February 19, 2019*

50,000

0.01

Changes in equity share capital **

42,331,675

8.47

At December 31, 2019

42,381,675

8.48

*On incorporation of the Company, pursuant to the scheme of arrangement, the equity shares were held by ABB India
Limited. (Refer note 37).
**On December 24, 2019 , the Company issued 42,381,675 number of fully paid equity shares having face value of INR 2 each
to the existing equity shareholders of ABB India Limited in the proportion of 1 share for every 5 shares held, pursuant to the
scheme of arrangement. Further, 50,000 number of shares issued to the ABB India Limited at the time of incorporation of
the Company has been cancelled as per the aforesaid scheme. (Refer note 37)

114

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Terms/rights attached to equity shares
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of INR 2/- per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled
to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian Rupees.
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company,
after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the
shareholders.
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% of the shares in the Company
Name of the shareholders
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited - the holding company

Number of shares

% of holding

3,17,86,256

75.00%

As per records of the Company and other declarations received from shareholders, the above shareholding represents both legal
and beneficial ownerships of shares.
(` in Crores)
Shares held by holding/ultimate holding company
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited - the holding company

Number of shares

Amount

31,786,256

6.36

31,786,256

6.36

14 Other equity
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
a

b

Securities premium
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (Refer note 37)

9.80

Closing balance

9.80

Retained earnings
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (Refer note 37)

149.93

Net profit for the year

165.39

Other comprehensive income (net of tax)
Closing balance
c

d

e

0.50
315.82

Amalgamation adjustment deficit account
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (Refer note 37)

(1.56)

Closing balance

(1.56)

Capital reserve
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (Refer note 37)

0.18

Closing balance

0.18

General reserve
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement (Refer note 37)

507.10

Closing balance

507.10

Total other equity

831.34

Nature and purpose of other reserves					
					
a
Securities premium					
Securities premium acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement and shall be utilised in accordance with the
provisions of Companies Act, 2013.
b

Amalgamation adjustment deficit account
Amalgamation adjustment deficit account is the deficit between the carrying value of assets, liabilities and reserves
transferred to the Company and the consideration discharged by way of the New Equity Shares issued to the
shareholders of ABB India Limited pursuant to the demerger of Power Grid Business from ABB India Limited.

c

Capital reserve
Capital reserve acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

d

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

115

General reserve
General reserve acquired pursuant to scheme of arrangement. The Company can use this reserve for payment of
dividend and issue of fully paid-up shares. As General reserve is created by transfer of one component of equity to
another and is not an item of other comprehensive income, items included in the General reserve will not be
subsequently reclassified to statement of profit and loss.

15 Other financial liabilities
(` in Crores)
Non-current

Current

December 31, 2019

December 31, 2019

1.18

0.01

Payable towards purchase of fixed assets

Security deposits received

-

39.25

Employee related payables

-

37.44

Interest accrued but not due

-

12.23

Mark to market loss on embedded derivatives*

-

8.98

Mark to market loss on forward contracts*

-

9.07

Other payables

-

147.72

1.18

254.70

* Mark to maket gain is identified and accounted based on the underlying contracts. The derivatives are recognised at fair
value through statement of profit & loss.

16 Income tax
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
The major components of income tax expense for the period
Statement of profit and loss:
Current tax

62.20

Deferred tax

(6.94)

Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss

55.26

Other comprehensive income
Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:
Income tax expense charged to OCI

(0.17)
(0.17)

Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate
Accounting profit before income tax

220.65

At Indiaʼs statutory tax rate of 25.17% for the period ended December 31, 2019

55.54

Adjustments in respect of current income tax
Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes

0.34

Change in Income tax rate

(3.06)

Other deductible expenses for tax purpose

2.44

Income tax expense at effective tax rate of 25.04%

55.26

Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) relates to the following:
Property, plant and equipment

(59.21)

Intangible assets and goodwill

(8.76)

Provision for doubtful debts and advances

47.47

Demerger related expenses

7.49

Expenditure debited to the statement of profit and loss but allowable for tax purpose in subsequent years

8.85

Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)

(4.16)

Deferred tax assets

63.81

Deferred tax liabilities

(67.97)

Deferred tax liabilities, net

(4.16)

1 16

17

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Borrowings (At amortized cost)
(` in Crores)
Current
December 31, 2019
Loans from related party (Unsecured)
Payable to ABB India Limited

347.62
347.62

The above said loan is subsequently repaid on February 11, 2020.

18 Trade payables
(` in Crores)
Current
December 31, 2019
Dues to micro and small enterprises *

6.46
6.46

Dues to creditors other than micro and small enterprises
Acceptances
Other trade payables

213.65
1,055.40
1,269.05
1,275.51

*The Company has amounts due to Micro and Small Enterprises under The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
(MSMED Act) as at December 31, 2019.
i)

ii)

The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at December 31, 2019
Principal amount

4.76

Interest

0.87

The amount of interest paid by the Company along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier
beyond the appointed day for the period ended December 31, 2019
Principal amount

-

Interest

-

iii)

The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment
(beyond the appointed day during the year)

0.83

iv)

The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid for the period ended December 31, 2019

1.70

v)

The amount of further interest remaining due and payable for the earlier years.

vi)

The amount (including interest) due as at December 31, 2019

6.46

The above disclosures are provided by the Company based on the information available with the Company in respect of the
registration status of its vendors/suppliers.

19 Other current liabilities
(` in Crores)
Current
December 31, 2019
Billing in excess of contract revenue (Refer note 36)

280.83

Statutory dues payable

31.86

Advance from customer

313.59
626.28

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

117

20 Provisions
(` in Crores)
Current
December 31, 2019
Provisions for employee benefits
Gratuity (Refer note 30)

3.76

Provident fund

0.12

Leave benefits

20.42

Other provisions
Warranties

92.43

Loss orders

22.73
139.46

Nature of provisions:
					
i
Warranties: The Company provides warranties for its products, systems and services, undertaking to repair or
replace the items that fail to perform satisfactorily during the warranty period. Provision made as at December 31,
2019 represents the amount of the expected cost based on technical evaluation and past experience of meeting
such obligations. It is expected that this expenditure will be incurred over the contractual warranty period.
ii

Loss orders: A provision for expected loss on construction contracts is recognised when it is probable
that the contract costs will exceed total contract revenue. For all other contracts loss order provisions are
made when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation under the contract exceed the currently estimated
economic benefits.

Details of changes in provisions during the period ended December 31, 2019
(` in Crores)
Transfer pursuant
to scheme of
arrangement

Additions

Warranties

84.84

Loss orders

30.09

Class of provisions

Amounts
used

Unused amounts
reversed

As at
December 31, 2019

18.08

7.19

3.30

92.43

12.57

19.91

0.02

22.73

21 Revenue from operations (net)
(` in Crores)
For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
Sale of products and services
Sale of products
Sale of services

2,483.24
706.58
3,189.82

Other operating revenues
Scrap sales
Commission income

10.25

Income from development services

1.20

Miscellaneous income

26.93
2.54
40.92

Revenue from operations (net)

3,230.74

118

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

22 Other income
(` in Crores)
For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
Finance income
Interest income:
Interest on security deposit

0.07
0.07

Other income
Interest income

0.40
0.40
0.47

23 Cost of raw materials, components consumed and project bought outs
(` in Crores)
For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
Raw material and components consumed
Inventory at the beginning of the period (Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement)
Add : Purchases during the period

254.22
1,830.88

Less : Inventory at the end of the period

332.88

Cost of raw materials consumed

1,752.22

24 (Increase)/decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods
(` in Crores)
For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement
- Finished goods

13.28

- Work-in-progress

200.86

- Traded goods

0.47
214.61

Closing stock
- Finished goods

12.15

- Work-in-progress

146.42

- Traded goods

0.49
159.06
55.55

25 Employee benefit expenses
(` in Crores)
For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
Salaries, wages and bonus

223.01

Gratuity expense (Refer note 30)

4.70

Provident fund expense (Refer note 30)

3.45

Contribution to superannuation and other funds

7.25

Staff welfare expenses

11.08

Training, recruitment and transfer expenses

0.27
249.76

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

1 19

26 Depreciation and amortisation expense
(` in Crores)
For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
Depreciation of tangible assets
Amortisation of intangible assets

43.65
4.76
48.41

27 Finance costs
(` in Crores)
For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
Interest expenses

18.80

Bill discounting and other charges

7.26

Interest expense on provisions measured at amortised cost

0.32
26.38

28 Other expenses

(` in Crores)
For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

Consumption of stores and spares
Packing expenses

18.21
7.96

Royalty and technology fees

129.92

Freight and forwarding

79.59

Postage and telephone

0.94

Commission (other than sole selling agent)

3.42

Power and fuel

42.58

Travelling and conveyance

35.83

Insurance

15.95

Rates and taxes (net)

3.15

Rent

9.76

Repairs and maintenance:
Buildings

1.33

Plant and machinery

15.27

Others

2.65

Provision for doubtful debts and advances / Bad debts / advances written off

5.21

Loss on sale of fixed assets (net)

0.34

Printing and stationery

1.09

Bank charges

1.39

Legal and professional*

12.88

Trademark fees

35.26

Information technology expenses

6.88

Exchange and commodity rate difference (net)

2.01

Services from third parties

29.30

Testing and inspection charges

8.26

Seminar and publicity expenses

3.09

Group management fees

66.03

Miscellaneous

29.67
567.97

* Includes auditorʼs remuneration towards the following:
Statutory audit and Group audit fees

1.58

120

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

29 Earning per share (EPS)
(` in Crores)
For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations
Earnings
Profit attributable to equity shareholders

165.39

Shares
Weighted average number of Equity Shares outstanding during the period - basic
Dilutive effect on shares
Weighted average number of Equity Shares outstanding during the period - diluted
Earnings per share of par value INR 2/- each - Basic and diluted (in `)

3,70,06,224
3,70,06,224
44.69

				
30) Gratuity and other post-employment benefit plans
The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan and provident fund plan and is in process of setting up the trusts
to manage the aforesaid plans.
Gratuity plan:
Gratuity is payable to all eligible employees of the Company as per the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act,
1972 or as per the Company’s scheme, whichever is higher. The plan assets are held by Asea Brown Boveri Ltd
Employees Gratuity Fund on behalf of the Company.
Provident fund plan:
The Company manages provident fund plan through a provident fund trust for its employees which is permitted
under the Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. The plan assets are held by ABB India Employees’
Provident Fund Trust on behalf of the Company till the period November 30, 2019 and subsequently it has been
remitted to the Regional provident fund organisation. The Contribution by employee and employer together with
interest are payable at the time of separation from service or retirement whichever is earlier.
Assumptions relating to future salary increases, attrition, interest rate for discount and overall expected rate of
return on assets have been considered based on relevant economic factors such as inflation, market growth and
other factors applicable to the period over which the obligation is expected to be settled.

(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
A

Gratuity
The following table sets out movement in defined benefits liability and the amount recognised in the financial
statements:
Gratuity provision

3.76

Total

3.76

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

121

(` in Crores)
Fair value of
plan assets
i.

Fair value of
plan assets

Benefit
liability

Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at
December 31, 2019:
As at February 19, 2019
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement

-

-

-

61.81

55.32

6.49

3.54

Gratuity cost charged to profit or loss:
Service cost

3.54

-

Net interest expense

3.35

2.19

1.16

Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss (Note 25)

6.89

2.19

4.70

-

4.13

(4.13)

Remeasurement (gains)/losses in other comprehensive income:
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions

2.12

-

2.12

Experience adjustments

1.34

-

1.34

Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income

3.46

4.13

(0.67)
(6.77)

-

6.77

Benefits paid

Contributions by employer

(2.81)

(2.82)

0.01

As at December 31, 2019

69.35

65.59

3.76

(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
ii

iii

Amount recognized in balance sheet
Present value of funded obligations

69.35

Fair value of plan assets

65.59

Net funded obligation

(3.76)

Net defined benefit liability recognised in balance sheet

(3.76)

Expense recognised in profit or loss
Current Service Cost
Interest Cost

3.54
1.16
4.70

iv

Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income
Actuarial loss on defined benefit obligation

3.46

Return on plan assets excluding interest income

(4.13)
(0.67)

v

The major categories of plan assets of the fair value of the total plan assets are as follows:
Investments quoted in active markets
Government of India Securities (Central and State)

8.28%

High quality corporate bonds (including Public Sector Bonds)

6.45%

Cash

17.49%

Scheme of insurance - Conventional products

67.78%

Total
vi

vii

100.00%

The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity obligations are shown below:
Discount rate

6.90%

Future salary increases

7.75%

The following payments are expected contributions to the defined benefit plan in future years
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)

3.46

Between 2 and 5 years

31.38

Beyond 5 years

45.07

Total expected payments

79.91

The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 10 years.

122

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
Discount rate
viii

Future salary
increases

A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at
December 31, 2019 is as shown below:
Assumptions
Sensitivity analysis
1% increase

(5.08)

5.73

1% decrease

5.83

(5.09)

Impact on defined benefit obligation
The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation as
a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.

B

Provident fund
(` in Crores)
Defined benefit
obligation
i

Fair value of
plan assets

Benefit
liability

Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets
As at February 19, 2019
Transfer pursuant to scheme of arrangement

-

-

-

208.18

204.63

3.55
31.57

Current service cost

31.57

-

Interest expense

19.97

19.77

0.20

-

14.25

(14.25)
(30.94)

Return on plan assets
Contributions
Benefit payments
Actuarial loss
As at December 31, 2019

-

30.94

(17.73)

(17.73)

9.99

-

9.99

251.98

251.86

0.12

-

(` in Crores)
December 31,
2019
ii

iii

Amount recognized in balance sheet
Present value of funded obligations

251.98

Fair value of plan assets

251.86

Net funded obligation

(0.12)

Net defined benefit liability recognised in balance sheet

(0.12)

The principal assumptions are shown below:
Discount rate
Expected return on EPFO

iv

6.90%
8.65% for the first year and 8.60% thereafter

A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at December 31, 2019 is as shown below:
0.5% increase in discount rate

(5.22)

0.5% decrease in discount rate

8.92

The sensitivity results above determine their individual impact on the planʼs end of year defined benefit obligation. In reality, the plan is
subject to multiple external experience items which may move the defined benefit obligation in similar or opposite direction, while
the planʼs sensitivity to such changes can vary over time.
Assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of the interest rate guarantee under the Deterministic Approach
v

The major categories of plan assets of the fair value of the total plan assets are as follows:
Investments quoted in active markets
Government of India Securities (Central and State)

52.14%

High quality corporate bonds (including Public Sector Bonds)

34.20%

Cash (including Special Deposits)
Total

13.66%
100.00%

vi

The company contributed ` 3.45 Crores towards employerʼs contribution for provident fund during the period December 2019.

vii

The provident plans are applicable only to employees drawing a salary in Indian Rupees and there are no other significant foreign defined
benefit plans.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

123

31 Financial Instruments
A

Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
The Company’s assets and liabilities which are measured at amortised cost for which fair values are disclosed at
December 31, 2019;
(` in Crores)
Particulars

December 31, 2019

Financial assets at fair value/amortised cost :
Loans (refer note 5)

12.88

Trade and other receivables (refer note 9)

1,792.85

Cash and cash equivalents (refer note 10)

188.04

Other financial assets (refer note 11)

101.28

Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss :
Derivative instruments (refer note 11)

24.30

Total financial assets

2,119.35

Financial liabilities at fair value/amortised cost:
Borrowings (refer note 17)

347.62

Trade payables (refer note 18)

1,275.51

Other financial liability (refer note 15)

237.83

Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss :
Derivative instruments (refer note 15)

18.05

Total financial liabilities

B

1,879.01

Fair value hierarchy
The following table presents the fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
as at December 31, 2019:
(` in Crores)
Particulars

Amount

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

24.30

-

24.30

-

18.05

-

18.05

-

Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss :
Derivative instruments (refer note 11)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss :
Derivative instruments (refer note 15)

Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments
that are (a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are
disclosed in the financial statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair
value, the Company has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard.
An explanation of each level follows underneath the table.
There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the period.
The management assessed that the carrying value of trade receivables, loans, trade payables, other financial assets and
liabilities and cash and cash equivalents approximate their fair values, due to the short term maturities of these instruments.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instruments could be exchanged in a
current transaction between willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with banks/financial institutions. Foreign currency forward
contracts are valued using valuation techniques which employs the use of market observable inputs using present value
calculations. The model incorporates various inputs including the deal specific fundamental, market conditions, maturity
period, transaction size, comparable trades, foreign currency spot and forward rates.

124

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

C

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Financial risk management
The Company’s principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other payables. The main
purpose of these financial liabilities is to support its operations. The Company’s principal financial assets include
trade and other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents that derive directly from its operations.
The Company is exposed to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The Company’s senior management
oversees the management of these risks. The Company’s senior management is supported by a Risk management
committee that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the
Company. The Risk management committee provides assurance to the Company’s senior management that the
Company’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are
identified, measured and managed in accordance with the Company’s policies and risk objectives. All derivative
activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills,
experience and supervision. It is the Company’s policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes may
be undertaken. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are
summarised below.
i

Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of
changes in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other
price risk, such as equity price risk and commodity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include
loans and borrowings, trade payables, deposits and investments.
Commodity contracts
The Company uses commodity future contracts to hedge risk against fluctuation in commodity prices. The
following are outstanding future contracts entered into by the Company as on December 31, 2019.
Commodity

Number
of contracts

Contractual
quantity

Buy/Sell

As at December 2019

Copper

23

783 MT

Buy

As at December 2019

Aluminium

2

74 MT

Buy

Year

ii

Foreign currency risk
The Company operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency
transactions, primarily with respect to the SEK. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial
transactions and recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not Company’s functional
currency (INR).
a)

Unhedged in foreign currency exposure

The following table analyses the unhedged portion of foreign currency exposure as at December 31, 2019:
Particulars

SEK

BDT

BTN

CNY

Trade receivables (` in Crores)

55.83

4.00

7.68

-

Others
4.18

1% increase

0.56

0.04

0.08

-

0.04

1% decrease

(0.56)

(0.04)

(0.08)

-

(0.04)

Trade payables (`in Crores)

-

10.39

3.30

9.27

2.11

1% increase

-

0.10

0.03

0.09

0.02

1% decrease

-

(0.10)

(0.03)

(0.09)

(0.02)

b)

Fair value of derivative instruments			
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019

(a) Forward contract for export debtors outstanding

10.51

(b) Forward contract for import creditors outstanding

(9.07)

(c) Forward cover for expected future sales / purchases

2.50

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

c)

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

125

Forward contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2019			
(` in Crores)

Currency

Number of
contracts

December 31, 2019

7

4.40

Exports
AUD
CHF

12

26.79

EUR

53

73.52

SEK

4

32.19

USD

154

158.33
295.23
(` in Crores)

Currency

Number of
contracts

December 31, 2019

CHF

33

52.61

EUR

88

93.15

SEK

67

116.27

USD

159

188.72

CNY

43

27.43

CNH

1

Imports

0.02
478.20

iii

Interest rate risk
The Company’s exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Company’s outstanding payable
to ABB India Limited.
The exposure of the Company’s borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period are as
follows:
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
Payable to ABB India Limited

347.62

The above loan carries an interest rate of 10%. The interest rate is fixed, hence there is no interest rate
risk applicable for the Company. Further, the aforementioned loan has been subsequently repaid on
February 11, 2020.
iv

Credit risk
Credit risk arises from cash held with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to clients,
including outstanding accounts receivable. The maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value
of the financial assets. The objective of managing counterparty credit risk is to prevent losses in financial
assets. The Company assesses the credit quality of the counterparties, taking into account their financial
position, past experience and other factors.

a)
Trade receivables
Trade receivables consists of a large number of customers spread across diverse industries.
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivable.
Under the simplified approach, the Company does not track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognizes
impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from initial recognition.
The Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on the portfolio of trade
receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the
trade receivable and is adjusted for forward looking estimates. At year end, the historical observed default rates
are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analyzed.

126

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Individual receivables which are known to be uncollectible are written off by reducing the carrying amount of
trade receivable and the amount of the loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss within other
expenses.
Specific allowance for loss has also been provided by the management based on expected recovery on individual
customers. The provision provided in books for trade receivables overdue:
Reconciliation of loss allowance
(` in Crores)
Particulars

December 31, 2019

Balance at the beginning of the period

-

Transfer as part of scheme of arrangement

190.92

Add: Additional ECL provision/(reversal)

(2.98)

Add: Additional provision

20.67

Less: Utilisation/reversal

21.97

Balance at the end of the period

186.64

Management does not expect any significant loss from non-performance by counterparties on credit granted
during the financial year that has not been provided for.
b)

Other than trade receivables

Management believes that the parties from which the receivables are due have strong capacity to meet the
obligations and risk of default is negligible or nil and accordingly no provision for expected credit loss has been
recorded.
v

Liquidity risk
The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use
of bank overdrafts and debentures. Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and
marketable securities and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities
to meet obligations when due and to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying
businesses, Company maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual
undiscounted payments.
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
Particulars

On demand

Less than 1 year

More than 1 year

Total

347.62

Period ended
December 31, 2019
Non-derivatives
Borrowings

-

347.62

-

Other financial liabilities

-

236.65

1.18

237.83

Trade payables

-

1,275.51

-

1,275.51

Total non-derivative liabilities

-

1,859.78

1.18

1,860.96

Embedded derivatives

-

8.98

-

8.98

Foreign currency

-

9.07

-

9.07

Total derivative liabilities

-

18.05

-

18.05

Derivatives (net settled)

32 Capital management
For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital, securities premium
and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity holders of the parent. The primary objective of the Company’s
capital management is to maximise the shareholder value.

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

127

The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the
requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend
payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Company monitors capital using a gearing
ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt.
(` in Crores)
Particulars

December 31, 2019

Borrowings

347.62

Trade payables

1,275.51

Other financial liabilities

255.88

Less: cash and cash equivalents

188.04

Net Debt

1,690.97

Total equity

839.82

Capital and net debt
Gearing ratio

2,530.79
67%

In order to achieve this overall objective, the Company’s capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure
that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure
requirements. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the period ended
December 31, 2019.
33

Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
Contingent liabilities (Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts)
Other matters

55.92
55.92

The Company does not have any contingent assets at the balance sheet date.
The Company is contesting the demands and the management believes that its position will likely be upheld in the
various appellate authorities/courts. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of this proceeding will not
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position.
In respect of the above contingent liabilities, the future cash outflows are determinable only on receipt of judgement
pending at various forums/authorities.
34 Commitments
(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019
a

Capital commitments
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on account of capital commitments and not
provided for (net of advances)

b

50.66

Non-cancellable operating leases
The Company has taken several premises and vehicles under cancellable and non-cancellable operating leases. These lease agreements
are normally for one to five years and have option of renewal on expiry of lease period based on mutual agreement.
Rental expenses towards cancellable and non-cancellable operating lease charged to the statement of profit and loss amounts to
`9.76 crores for the period ended December 31, 2019.
Some of the lease agreements have escalation clause ranging from 5% to 15%. There are no exceptional/restrictive covenants in the lease
agreement. There are no assets given on operating lease.
The schedule of future minimum lease payments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases is set out below:
Within one year

9.45

Later than one year but not later than five years

26.62

Later than five years
Total
c

Finance lease
There are no assets taken on finance lease as on December 31, 2019.

36.07

128

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

35 Segment information
An operating segment is a component that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and
incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the other components, and
for which discrete financial information is available. The company is engaged in the business relating to products,
projects and services for electricity transmission and related activities. Accordingly, the Company’s activities and
business is reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker from an overall business perspective, rather than
reviewing its products/services as individual standalone components. Thus, the Company has only one operating
segment, and has no reportable segment in accordance with Ind AS- 108 ‘Operating Segments’.
i

The entity wide disclosures as required by Ind AS-108 are as follows:
(` in Crores)
Description

ii

For the period from February
19, 2019 to December 31, 2019

Sale of products

2,483.24

Sale of services

706.58

Other operating revenues

40.92

Revenue from operations

3,230.74

Geographical information
(` in Crores)
Revenue from customers

For the period from February
19, 2019 to December 31, 2019

India
Other countries*

2,699.97
530.77
3,230.74

*Exports to any single country are not material to be disclosed
Non-current assets**
India
Other countries*

December 31, 2019
638.93
638.93

		

** Non-current assets does not include deferred tax assets, financial instruments and non-current tax assets.

iii

Power Grid Corporation of India Limited accounts for more than 10% of Companyʼs total revenue from operations.

36 Revenue from contracts with customers
a

Disaggregated revenue information
(` in Crores)
Revenue by geography
India
Other countries*

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
2,699.97
530.77
3,230.74

		

* Exports to any single country are not material to be disclosed.
(` in Crores)
Revenue by offerings

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to
December 31, 2019

Sale of products

2483.24

Sale of services

706.58

Other operating revenue

40.92
3,230.74

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

b

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Contract balances

129

(` in Crores)
December 31, 2019

Trade receivables

1,792.85

Advance from customers (Contract liabilities)

313.59

Billing in excess of contract revenue

280.83

Contract assets

171.08

Contract revenue in excess of billing / unbilled revenue

66.45

A contract asset is an entity’s right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has
transferred to a customer and hence is not a financial instrument. In Company’s contracts with customers, since
the contractual right to payment arises only upon achievement of milestones specified in the contract, it is
believed that the performance completed until the achievement of a particular milestone should be recorded as
a contract asset under non-financial assets.
During the period INR 54.93 crores of contract assets pertaining to the long term contracts as of April 1, 2019 has
been reclassified to trade receivables upon billing to customers on completion of milestones.
During the period, the company has recognised of INR 173.04 crores arising from opening deferred income as of
April 1, 2019.
c

No significant adjustment expected in contract price for revenue recognised in statement of profit and loss.

d
		

Performance Obligation
Information about the Company’s performance obligations are summarised below:
Execution of long term contract for projects
i

Long-term (Construction type) contracts - The long-term contracts are ordinarily presumed to consist of
combined obligations which are not distinct in the context of the contract (i.e., single performance obligation).
This is highly attributed to the long-term construction nature of the projects, whereby deliverables are
typically highly inter-related and combined. The typical scope of turnkey contracts arrangements includes
engineering, manufacturing, shipment, delivery installation, testing, erection and commissioning and civil
works. Although there are several components to the overall scope of the contract, the turnkey contracts are
generally considered one performance obligation.

ii

Products manufacturing and erection, commissioning and installation contracts - These contracts
comprising of two performance obligations of supply of products and erection and commissioning thereof.
When the manufacturing stage is complete, factory acceptance testing procedures are performed to ensure
the equipment meets customer specifications and may involve the customer physically observing the testing
procedures. Revenue from contracts, where the performance obligations are satisfied over time and other
consideration, is recognized as per the percentage of completion method. The Company uses the percentage
of completion method based on the costs expended to the date as a proportion of the total costs to be
expended.
For certain products like transformers and gas-insulated switchgears, percentage of completion is followed
basis acceptance of “Factory Acceptance Test” (FAT) carried by the customer basis the Companyʼs assessment
that these products being manufactured have an alternative use till the time FAT is carried out.
Company as part of its contracts, provides warranties of the equipment for defects arising out of poor
workmanship, inferior material or manufacturing. Such warranty provided is in the nature of assurance
warranty and is not accounted for as a separated performance obligation.

e

Remaining performance obligations
The remaining performance obligation disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet
to be recognized as at the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the Company expects to
recognize these amounts in revenue.

130

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

The aggregate value of performance obligations that are completely or partially unsatisfied as at December 31,
2019 is INR 5,100.65 crores. The conversion to revenue is highly dependent on meeting the delivery schedules,
contractual terms and conditions with customers, availability of customer sites, changes/variation in scope/
prices etc. In view of these, it is not practical to define the accurate percentage of conversion to revenue. However,
it will be in a range of 1 to 3 years.
f

37

There was no revenue recognised in the current year ended December 31, 2019 from performance obligations
satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods due to no significant changes in transaction price.

Business restructuring
Scheme of arrangement
The Board of Directors of ABB India Limited on March 5, 2019 granted in-principle approval for the Scheme of
Arrangement under Sections 230-232 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Scheme’)
between ABB India Limited (‘Demerged Company’), ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited (‘Resulting
Company’) and their respective shareholders and creditors for the demerger of Power Grid business from
ABB India Limited into ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited. The Scheme of Arrangement for Demerger
was submitted to National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Bengaluru Bench for approval. In-principle approval of the
Demerger Scheme was obtained from NCLT on November 27, 2019 and a certified copy has been filed by the Company
with the Registrar of Companies, Bengaluru, on December 1, 2019. The financial statements of the Company have
been prepared considering the effect of the scheme of arrangement from the Appointed date i.e., April 1, 2019. The
scheme has been considered in these financial statements by transferring the assets and liabilities as identified by
the management as pertaining to the Power Grid business of ABB India Limited to ABB Power Products and Systems
India Limited with effect from the “Appointed Date” at their respective book values as follows:
(` in Crores)
Particulars

Amount

Assets
Property, plant and equipment

523.33

Capital work-in-progress

37.86

Goodwill

31.80

Other intangible assets

12.42

Other non-current assets
Other financial assets

7.20
270.85

Inventories

469.58

Trade receivables

1,407.44

Loans

8.25

Other current assets

63.39

Total-A

2,832.12

Liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
Trade payables

101.24
10.95
1,071.63

Other financial liabilities

223.30

Other current liabilities

608.10

Provisions
Total-B
Net assets (A-B)

142.97
2,158.19
673.93

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

13 1

As per the applicable accounting standard Ind AS 103 (‘standard’), since this demerger is a common control business
combination, the financial information necessitates restatement by the Company at carrying amounts not from the
appointed date but from the beginning of the preceding period in the financial statements which happens to be the
date of incorporation i.e. February 19, 2019. Consequentially, the Company is required to give effect to the business
combination from February 19, 2019 (date of its incorporation). However, the Company has recognised the impact of
the business combination only from April 1, 2019 (i.e. the appointed date specified in the scheme). The management
believes that due to incoherence between the appointed date i.e., April 1, 2019 and date of incorporation i.e. February
19, 2019 and requirements of Ind AS 103 such a one-off situation has arisen. Thus, the statement of profit and loss
(including other comprehensive income), statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the period
do not contain the impact of the transactions of the demerged undertaking from February 19, 2019 to March 31, 2019.
However, there is no impact of the same on the Company’s balance sheet as at December 31, 2019.
As consideration for the value of net assets transferred, the Company has issued 1 (One) fully paid up equity share of
INR 2 each for every 5 (Five) Equity shares of INR 2 each held by existing shareholders in ABB India Limited. There is no
contingent consideration payable pursuant to this acquisition.
Further, as per the Scheme, the deficit, if any, between the carrying value of assets, liabilities and reserves transferred
to the “Resulting Company” and the consideration discharged by way of the New Equity Shares issued to the
shareholders of the “Demerged Company” in lieu of the Demerged Undertaking has been recorded as ‘Amalgamation
Adjustment Deficit Account’ in the books of the “Resulting Company”.
Further, the Company has incurred the following cost due to the demerger which has been classified as exceptional
items in the statement of profit and loss:
(` in Crores)

Particulars

Amount

Stamp Duty charges

37.23

Professional charges
Others

1.63

Total

1.93
40.79

132

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

38 Related party disclosures
Party where control exists:
ABB Limited, Zurich, Switzerland (Ultimate Holding Company)
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited, Zurich, Switzerland (Holding Company)
Entities under common control
Name of the Fellow subsidiaries:
ABB (China) Ltd., Beijing, China
ABB (Hong Kong) Ltd., Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region of China
ABB (Namibia) (Pty) Ltd., Windhoek, Namibia
ABB (Private) Ltd.; Harare; Zimbabwe
ABB (Pty) Ltd., Gaborone, Botswana
ABB A/S, Skovlunde, Denmark
ABB AB, Västerås, Sweden
ABB AG, Mannheim, Germany
ABB AS, Billingstad, Norway
ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd, Zurich, Switzerland
ABB Australia Pty Limited, Moorebank, NSW, Australia
ABB Automation GmbH, Mannheim, Germany
ABB B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands
ABB Beijing Switchgear Limited, Beijing, China
ABB Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia, Bulgaria
ABB Business Services Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland
ABB Contracting Company Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
ABB Ecuador S.A., Quito, Ecuador
ABB Electrical Equipment (Xiamen) Co., Ltd., Xiamen, China
ABB Electrical Industries Co. Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
ABB Elektrik Sanayi A.S., Istanbul, Turkey
ABB Engg. Technologies Co. (KSCC), Safat, Kuwait
ABB Enterprise Software (PGHV US non-legal entity),
Mt. Pleasant, PA, United States
ABB Enterprise Software Inc., Atlanta, GA, United States
ABB for Electrical Industries (ABB ARAB) S.A.E., Cairo, Egypt
ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited, Bangalore
India ABB Global Marketing FZ LLC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
ABB High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen) Company Ltd.,
Xiamen, China
ABB High Voltage Switchgear Co., Ltd. Beijing, China
ABB Inc., Cary, NC, United States
ABB Inc., Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada
ABB India Limited, Bangalore, India
ABB Industries (L.L.C.), Dubai, United Arab Emirates
ABB Industries FZ, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
ABB Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland
ABB Jiangsu Jingke Instrument Transformer Co., Ltd.,
Suqian, Jiangsu, China
ABB K.K., Tokyo, Japan
ABB Limitada, Maputo, Mozambique
ABB Limited/Jordan LLC., Amman, Jordan
ABB Limited, Auckland, New Zealand
ABB Limited, Bangkok, Thailand
ABB Limited, Dar Es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania
ABB Limited, Dhaka, Bangladesh
ABB Management Services Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland
ABB Mexico S.A. de C.V., San Luis Potosi SLP, Mexico
ABB N.V., Zaventem, Belgium
ABB Near East Trading Ltd., Amman, Jordan
ABB Oy, Helsinki, Finland
ABB PG Muscat LLC; Muscat, Oman
ABB Power Grids Argentina S.A.U.,
Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina
ABB Power Grids Australia Pty Ltd, Brisbane,
Queensland, Australia
ABB Power Grids Bulgaria EOOD, Sevlievo, Bulgaria
ABB Power Grids Canada Inc, Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada
ABB Power Grids Chile SA, Santiago, Chile

ABB Power Grids Colombia Ltda, Bogotá, Colombia
ABB Power Grids Denmark, A/S, Skovlunde, Denmark
ABB Power Grids Germany AG, Mannheim, Germany
ABB Power Grids Greece Single Member SA;
Metamorphossis Attica, Greece
ABB Power Grids Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong,
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China
ABB Power Grids Italy S.p.A., Milano, Italy
ABB Power Grids Ltd., Moscow, Russian Federation
ABB Power Grids Malaysia Sdn Bhd, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
ABB Power Grids Peru S. A., Lima, Peru
ABB Power Grids Poland Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland
ABB Power Grids Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore
ABB Power Grids South Africa (Pty) Ltd, Johannesburg, South Africa
ABB Power Grids Sweden AB, Västerås, Sweden
ABB Power Grids Switzerland Ltd, Baden, Switzerland
ABB Pte. Ltd., Singapore
ABB S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina
ABB S.A., Casablanca, Morocco
ABB S.A., Lima, Peru
ABB S.A., Santiago, Chile
ABB S.p.A., Milan, Italy
ABB s.r.o., Prague, Czech Republic
ABB SARL, Kinshasa Gombe, Democratic Republic of the Congo
ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland
ABB Sécheron S.A., Satigny, Switzerland
ABB Sifang Power System Co. Ltd.; Beijing, China
ABB South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa
ABB Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland
ABB Asea Brown Boveri SRL, Bucharest, Romania
ABB Substations Contracting India Private Limited,
Bangalore, India
ABB Supply Operations Ltd., Baden, Switzerland
ABB Technologies Ltd., Haifa, Israel
ABB Limited, Dublin, Ireland
ABB Limited, Nairobi, Kenya
ABB Limited, Warrington, United Kingdom
ABB LLC, Muscat, Oman
ABB LLC, Doha, Qatar
ABB Ltd., Hanoi, Vietnam
ABB Ltd., Lusaka, Zambia
ABB Ltd., Moscow, Russian Federation
ABB Ltd., Seoul, Republic of Korea
ABB Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan (Chinese Taipei)
ABB Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil
ABB Malaysia Sdn Bhd., Subang Jaya, Malaysia
ABB Management Holding Ltd., Zürich, Switzerland
ABB Technology SA, Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire
ABB Transmission & Distribution Limited LLC,
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
ABB Xi’an Power Capacitor Company Limited, Xi’an, China
ABB, Inc., Paranaque, Metro Manila, Philippines
ABBNG Limited, Lagos, Nigeria
Asea Brown Boveri Lanka (Private) Limited, Colombo, Sri Lanka
Asea Brown Boveri Ltd., Moka, Mauritius
Asea Brown Boveri S.A., Madrid, Spain
PT ABB Sakti Industri, Jakarta, Indonesia
Pucaro Elektro-Isolierstoffe GmbH, Roigheim, Germany
Sucursal Panama de ABB SA, Panama
Trasfor SA; Monteggio; Switzerland

Key managerial personnel :
a
Managing Director
b
Non-Executive Director

Venu Nuguri
Sanjeev Sharma

c
Non-Executive cum Independent Directors
			
			
			
			

Akhila Krishnakumar
Nishi Vasudeva
Mukesh Hari Butani
Frank Duggan

d
e

Ajay Singh
Poovanna C Ammatanda

Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

13 3

Transactions with related parties
Transaction value in excess of 10% with a fellow subsidiary has been individually disclosed below. All other cases have
been grouped and disclosed as ‘other fellow subsidiaries’.
For the period from
February 19, 2019 to December 31, 2019
i

Revenue from operations
Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

453.19

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland

90.86

- Other fellow subsidiaries

279.04
823.09

ii

Purchases of raw materials, components, project items and traded goods
Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

229.17

- ABB Power Grids Sweden AB; Västerås;

86.13

- Other fellow subsidiaries

159.41
474.71

iii

Expenditure on royalty, technology and trademark fees
Holding Company

35.26

Fellow Subsidiaries

129.64

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland
- Other fellow subsidiaries
iv

0.28
165.18

Expenditure on information technology, engineering, management and other services
Ultimate Holding Company

0.09

Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB Management Holding Ltd.; Zürich; Switzerland

55.82

- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

24.62

- Other fellow subsidiaries

29.54
110.07

v

Expenses recovered from group companies
Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB Power Grids Chile SA; Santiago; Chile

2.34

- PT ABB Sakti Industri; Jakarta; Indonesia

2.16

- ABB Power Grids Argentina S.A.U.; Ciudad Autonoma de

1.86

- ABB Management Holding Ltd.; Zürich; Switzerland

1.81

- Other fellow subsidiaries

7.76
15.93

vi

Other capital expenditure
Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

2.96

- ABB Power Grids Sweden AB; Västerås; Sweden

0.97

- ABB Schweiz AG; Baden; Switzerland

0.61

- Other fellow subsidiaries

0.27
4.81

vii

Interest expenses
Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

viii

12.23

Loan taken
ABB India Limited; Bengaluru; India

347.62

134

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

For the period from
February 19, 2019 to December 31, 2019
ix

Remuneration to key managerial personnel
The remuneration of key management personnel and a relative of key management personnel
of the company are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in Ind AS 24
related party disclosures.
Particulars
Short-term employee benefits

0.32

Post employment benefits#

0.02

Directorsʼ sitting fees

-

Commission to Directors

-

Total
# Does not include gratuity and compensated absences as these are provided in the books of accounts on the basis of actuarial valuation

c

Amount due to/from related parties
Balances in excess of 10% with a fellow subsidiary has been individually disclosed below. All other cases have been
grouped and disclosed as “other fellow subsidiaries”.

i

Trade receivables

As at December 31, 2019
Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

589.34

- Other fellow subsidiaries

123.36
712.70

Add/(Less): Impact of foreign currency restatement

1.11
713.81

ii

Other financial assets
Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

18.91

- ABB South Africa (Pty) Ltd.; Modderfontein; South Africa

12.03

- Other fellow subsidiaries

6.58
37.52

Add/(Less): Impact of foreign currency restatement

37.52

iii

Other current assets
Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB Power Grids Sweden AB; Västerås; Sweden

6.46

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland

1.42

- Other fellow subsidiaries

0.40
8.28

Add/(Less): Impact of foreign currency restatement

0.29
8.57

iv

Trade payables
Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

243.13

- ABB Power Grids Sweden AB; Västerås; Sweden

65.03

- Other fellow subsidiaries

96.90
405.06

Add/(Less): Impact of foreign currency restatement

2.48
407.54

v

Other financial liabilities
ABB India Limited; Bangalore; India

4.39

Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB Schweiz AG; Baden; Switzerland
- Other fellow subsidiaries

0.68
1.20
6.27

Add/(Less): Impact of foreign currency restatement

0.06
6.33

ABB POWER PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS INDIA LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

13 5

As at December 31, 2019
vi

Other current liabilities
Fellow Subsidiaries
- ABB South Africa (Pty) Ltd.; Modderfontein; South Africa

22.81

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland

2.59

- Other fellow subsidiaries

3.40
28.80

Add/(Less): Impact of foreign currency restatement

0.16
28.96

As per our report of even date attached
for B S R & Co. LLP		
Chartered Accountants		
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022

for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
Corporate identity number (CIN) : U31904KA2019PLC121597

Amrit Bhansali 		
Partner		
Membership no.: 065155		

Frank Duggan
Chairman
DIN: 02937233

Venu Nuguri
Managing Director
DIN: 07032076

			
Ajay Singh		
			
Chief Financial Officer
					
					

Place: Bengaluru 		
Date: February 28, 2020		

Place: Mumbai
Date: February 28, 2020

Mukesh Hari Butani
Director
DIN: 01452839

Poovanna C Ammatanda
General Counsel
& Company Secretary
(FCS4741)

—
ABB Power Products and Systems India Limited
8th Floor, Brigade Opus
70/401, Kodigehalli Main Road
Bengaluru - 560 092
www.hitachiabb-powergrids.com/in

© copyright 2020 ABB. All rights reserved.

